                                        Noname manuscript No.
                                        (will be inserted by the editor)




                                        Using Knowledge Units of Programming Languages to
                                        Recommend Reviewers for Pull Requests: An Empirical
                                        Study

                                        Md Ahasanuzzaman · Gustavo A. Oliva ·
                                        Ahmed E. Hassan



                                        Received: date / Accepted: date
arXiv:2305.05654v1 [cs.SE] 9 May 2023




                                        Abstract Code review is a key element of quality assurance in software de-
                                        velopment. Determining the right reviewer for a given code change requires
                                        understanding the characteristics of the changed code, identifying the skills of
                                        each potential reviewer (expertise profile), and finding a good match between
                                        the two. To facilitate this task, we design a code reviewer recommender that
                                        operates on the knowledge units (KUs) of a programming language. We define
                                        a KU as a cohesive set of key capabilities that are offered by one or more build-
                                        ing blocks of a given programming language. We operationalize our KUs using
                                        certification exams for the Java programming language. We detect KUs from
                                        10 actively maintained Java projects from GitHub, spanning 290K commits
                                        and 65K pull requests (PRs). Next, we generate developer expertise profiles
                                        based on the detected KUs. Finally, these KU-based expertise profiles are
                                        used to build a code reviewer recommender (KUREC). The key assumption of
                                        KUREC is that the code reviewers of a given PR should be experts in the KUs
                                        that appear in the changed files of that PR. In RQ1, we compare KUREC’s per-
                                        formance to that of four baseline recommenders: (i) a commit-frequency-based
                                        recommender (CF), (ii) a review-frequency-based recommender (RF), (iii) a
                                        modification-expertise-based recommender (ER), and (iv) a review-history-
                                        based recommender (CHREV). We observe that KUREC performs as well as
                                        the top-performing baseline recommender (RF). From a practical standpoint,
                                        we highlight that KUREC’s performance is more stable (lower interquartile
                                        range) than that of RF, thus making it more consistent and potentially more
                                        trustworthy. Next, in RQ2 we design three new recommenders by combining
                                        KUREC with our baseline recommenders. These new combined recommenders
                                        outperform both KUREC and the individual baselines. Finally, in RQ3 we
                                        evaluate how reasonable the recommendations from KUREC and the com-

                                           Md Ahasanuzzaman, Gustavo A. Oliva, and Ahmed E. Hassan
                                        Software Analysis and Intelligence Lab (SAIL), School of Computing
                                        Queen’s University, Kingston, Ontario, Canada
                                        E-mail: {ma87,gustavo,ahmed}@cs.queensu.ca
2                                                         Md Ahasanuzzaman et al.


bined recommenders are when those deviate from the ground truth. KUREC is
the recommender with the highest percentage of reasonable recommendations
(63.4%). One of our combined recommenders (AD_FREQ) strikes the best
balance between sticking to the ground truth (best recommender from RQ2)
and issuing reasonable recommendations when those deviate from that ground
truth (59.4% reasonable recommendations, third best in this RQ). Taking to-
gether the results from all RQs, we conclude that KUREC and AD_FREQ are
overall superior to the baseline recommenders that we studied. Future work
in the area should thus (i) consider KU-based recommenders as baselines and
(ii) experiment with combined recommenders.
Keywords Reviewer recommendation, pull requests, knowledge representa-
tion, knowledge units, Java


1 Introduction

Code review has a prominent role in modern software development. Indeed,
code review systems are baked into the most popular software development
platforms (a.k.a, forges), including GitHub, GitLab, and BitBucket.
     Code review comprises “a record of the interaction between the owner of
a change and reviewers of the change, including comments on the code and
signoffs from reviewers” [78]. The quality of a code review thus inherently
depends on the selection of the reviewer. Yet, finding the right reviewer for a
set of code changes is not always a trivial task. This is particularly true in the
context of large-scale, distributed software development [5, 56].
     Mapping different expertises to individual developers is a key requirement
for effective code review. Recent research studies have attempted to develop
approaches to detect experts in specific topics [42] and accurately represent
expertise [10]. In this paper, we focus on a key facet of expertise, which is
programming language (PL) expertise. Our rationale is that a piece of code
involving concurrency is suitable to be reviewed by someone who has demon-
strated experience in dealing with such type of code.
     In order to capture the programming language expertise of developers, we
introduce the notion of Knowledge Units (KUs) of programming languages.
We define a KU as a cohesive set of key capabilities that are offered by one
or more building blocks of a given programming language (see Figure 1). For
instance, some key capabilities offered by the Exception building block of the
Java programming language include (i) creating custom exception classes and
(ii) printing the stack traces of exceptions. To operationalize the definition of
KUs for Java, we analyze the topics covered in Java certification exams. Our
rationale is that exam topics are precisely aimed at evaluating the degree of
one’s expertise in applying the key capabilities that are offered by the building
blocks of Java. To determine developers’ expertise based on KUs, we detect the
KUs that are present in the Java files that developers change in their commits.
     This paper reports an empirical study on using the knowledge units of the
Java programming language to recommend reviewers for GitHub pull requests
Using KUs of PLs to Recommend Reviewers for PRs: An Empirical Study                                                         3




                                                     Knowledge Unit
                                                         (KU)

                                                             a cohesive
                                                             set of key
                      Create custom                                                   Examine code for
                       exceptions                                                        exception
                                                      Capabilities
                    Print backtraces of                                              Execute a task when
                        exceptions                                                   an exception occurs
                                                             offer


                                          contains                        contains                        try/catch
  Exception API                                      Building Blocks                                (handling exceptions)

   Generic and                                                                                                extends
  Collections API                                                                                          (inheritance)
                                          APIs                            Constructs
                                                                                                            synchronize
 Concurrency API
                                                                                                           (concurrency)
                                                             contains
                                                                                                              foreach
    String API                                        Programming                                          (control flow)
                                                       Languages



      Metamodel element
      Java example
     Connection between metamodel elements
     Connection between metamodel and Java example
     Connection between capability and building block




Fig. 1 Our metamodel for knowledge units (KUs).



(PRs). We start with a preliminary study in which we evaluate whether our
operationalization of Java KUs can reveal software developers with different
programming language expertise. To conduct this study, we detected and ana-
lyzed KUs from 10 real-world actively maintained Java projects from GitHub,
spanning a total of 290k commits. Next, we applied the k-means algorithm to
cluster developers based on the KUs that are present in their changed files.
Running the algorithm resulted in the identification 71 different developer
clusters of varying sizes. A closer inspection of the clusters indeed revealed
developers with different KU expertise profiles.
    Given the encouraging results from the preliminary study, we proceeded
to build a KU-based reviewer recommendation systems (KUREC). KUREC
works as follows. Given a certain PR, we construct a KU-based development
expertise profile and a KU-based review expertise profile for every developer.
More specifically, these profiles are created based on the KUs that a developer
encountered during his prior code changes and code reviews. Next, a PR-
specific expertise score is computed for every developer based on how well
the KUs that appear in the changed files of the PR in question match the
4                                                     Md Ahasanuzzaman et al.


two aforementioned expertise profiles. This score aims to capture whether a
candidate reviewer has proven experience with the KUs that are present in
the changed files of the PR. Finally, the score gets a bonus depending on how
recent the candidate’s prior code changes and code reviews are. The intuition
is that someone who has worked with concurrent code last week is probably
more suitable to review a PR involving concurrent code than someone who last
worked with concurrent code 6 months ago. Finally, we simply rank candidate
reviewers based on their expertise score and recommend the top ones. With
KUREC in hand, we address the following three research questions:
RQ1: How accurately can KUREC recommend code reviewers in
pull requests? We compare the performance of KUREC to that of four
other baseline recommenders, namely: (i) a commit-frequency-based recom-
mender (CF) [57], (ii) a review-frequency-based recommender (RF) [75], (iii)
a modification-expertise-based recommender (ER) [23, 38], and (iv) a review-
history-based recommender (CHREV) [78]. Recommender performance is com-
puted using two measures: top-k accuracy and mean average precision (MAP).
Our results indicate that:
KUREC performs as well as the top-performing baseline recommender (RF)
and outperforms the remaining three baselines. We also note that KUREC has
a more stable performance (smaller interquartile range) compared to RF, which
is a desired property in practice [1].
RQ2: Can KUREC be made more accurate by combining it with
existing recommenders? Inspired by our prior work on adaptive heuris-
tics [36], we combine KUREC with all other baseline recommenders to cre-
ate three brand-new recommenders: a frequency-based one called AD_FREQ
(given a PR, AD_FREQ triggers the baseline recommender that performed
the best most of the time), a recency-based one called AD_REC (given a PR,
AD_REC triggers the baseline recommender that performed the best in the
prior PR), and a frequency/recency hybrid one called AD_HYBRID (given a
PR, AD_HYBRID triggers the baseline recommender that performed the best
in the prior 10 PRs). We refer to AD_FREQ, AD_REC, and AD_HYBRID
as combined recommenders. Our results indicate that:
All three combined recommenders have similar performance. For top-k accu-
racy, the combined recommenders perform as well as the top baselines (RF and
KUREC). For MAP, the combined recommenders outperform the top base-
lines. More specifically, combined recommenders achieve a median MAP that
ranges from 0.56 to 0.57, which is 16.5%–18.4% higher than that of RF and
34%–36.1% higher than that of KUREC. Finally, the combined recommenders
always outperform the baselines in both top-1 accuracy and MAP@1. We thus
conclude that combining KUREC with other recommenders using a simple ap-
proach results in a more accurate recommender.
RQ3: How reasonable are the recommendations made by KUREC?
To evaluate KUREC in RQ1 and RQ2, we compared its recommendations to
a ground truth. This ground truth corresponds to the list of actual develop-
ers who reviewed the PRs. The results indicated that sometimes KUREC’s
Using KUs of PLs to Recommend Reviewers for PRs: An Empirical Study                5


recommendations differ from such ground truth. We thus wonder whether the
recommendations made by KUREC (and our other studied recommenders)
would have been reasonable choices in practice when those differ from what
happened in reality. We consider a recommendation to be reasonable if the
(top-1) recommended individual recently committed or submitted PRs that
included the majority of the files from the PR in question. Our results indi-
cate that:
KUREC is the recommender with the highest percentage of reasonable recom-
mendations (63.4%). The AD_FREQ combined recommender, in particular,
strikes the best balance between sticking to the ground truth (best recommender
from RQ2) and issuing reasonable recommendations when those deviate from
that ground truth (59.4%, third best recommender in this RQ).
  Taking together the results from all RQs, we conclude that KUREC and
AD_FREQ are overall superior to the baseline recommenders that we studied.
The main contribution of our paper are as follows: (i) operationalizing
the notion of knowledge units of programming languages using a systematic
approach, (ii) defining a method to represent developers’ programming lan-
guage expertise using the knowledge units (KUs) of a programming language,
and (iii) introducing a KU-based reviewer recommender (KUREC) and varia-
tions (e.g., AD_FREQ) that are overall superior to the baseline recommenders
that we studied. Future work in the area should thus consider KU-based rec-
ommenders as baselines and experiment with combined recommenders. A sup-
plementary material package is provided online1
Paper organization. Section 2 defines KUs and presents our approach to
detect them. Section 3 describes our data collection approach. Section 4 reports
our preliminary study in which we analyze the potential behind KUs. Section 5
presents the motivation, approach, and findings of our three research questions.
Section 6 discusses related work. Section 7 describes the threats to the validity
of our findings. Finally, Section 8 outlines our concluding remarks.


2 Knowledge Units (KUs)

2.1 Definition

Every programming language consists of building blocks that developers use
to produce code. In the case of Java programming language, we consider the
building blocks to be the Java fundamental language constructs (e.g., if/else
statements, try/catch statements, and synchronize blocks) and APIs (e.g.,
Exception API, Concurrency API, and Generic and Collections API). Each
building block offers a set of capabilities, which are essentially the things that
a developer can do with that building block.
  1 http://www.bit.ly/3bhSFux. The contents will be made available on a public GitHub

repository once the paper is accepted.
6                                                        Md Ahasanuzzaman et al.


    A Knowledge Unit (KU) is a cohesive set of key capabilities that are of-
fered by one or more building blocks of a given programming language. Our
definition includes the word “key” and our rationale is to avoid having KUs con-
ceived around capabilities that are too specific or highly context-dependent.
Figure 1 illustrates key capabilities that are associated with the Exception
API (left-hand side) and the try/catch language construct (right-hand side).


2.2 Operational Definition

Certification exams of a programming language (e.g., Oracle Java SE and
Java EE certification exams for the Java programming language) aim to de-
termine the skills and knowledge of a developer in using the key capabilities
offered by the building blocks of that language. Hence, we can say that cer-
tification exams capture the KUs of a programming language. For instance,
one of the topics covered in the Java SE 8 Programmer II certification exam
is “Concurrency”. The subtopics of “Concurrency” that are covered in the
exam include: (i) create worker threads using Runnable, Callable and use
an ExecutorService to concurrently execute tasks, (ii) use synchronize
keyword and java.util.concurrent.atomic package to control the order
of thread execution, (iii) use java.util.concurrent collections and classes
including cyclicBarrier and copyonWriteArrayList, and (iv) use parallel
fork/join framework. We interpret such a list of subtopics as the key capabili-
ties that are offered by the “Concurrency” building block of the Java program-
ming language. From this interpretation, we infer that Java has a “Concurrency
KU”.
     In this paper, we operationalize our KUs via Oracle certification exams for
the Java programming language. Oracle offers certification exams for different
Java editions, such as Java Standard Edition (Java SE) and Java Enterprise
Edition (Java EE). For Java SE, Oracle has two exam versions: (i) Oracle
Certified Associate, Java SE 8 Programmer I Certification exam [48], and (ii)
Oracle Certified Professional, Java SE 8 Programmer II Certification exam
[46]. For Java EE, Oracle offers only one version of the exam: Oracle Certified
Professional, Java EE Application Developer Certification exam [47]. In this
study, we extract the list of KUs directly from the topics of the aforemen-
tioned certification exams. Each topic of each certification exam consists of a
list of subtopics, and we interpret such subtopics as the key capabilities of the
building blocks of the Java programming language. More specifically, to oper-
ationalize KUs we perform the following steps. First, we eliminate subtopics
(from any exam) that are inappropriate for our research (i.e., subtopics that
explain concepts and cannot be extracted automatically). Subtopics are then
rearranged (both inside and across tests) so that they fall under the most
specific topic possible. Finally, each topic is converted into a KU (one-to-one
mapping), and its subtopics are interpreted as the KU’s main capabilities. To
mitigate subjectiveness bias, the first two authors collaborated on the entire
mapping process and discussed how to handle corner cases. At the end of
Using KUs of PLs to Recommend Reviewers for PRs: An Empirical Study                 7


this process, we identified 28 KUs (Table 1). Appendix A details the mapping
process.


2.3 Detection of KUs

We employ a static analysis approach to detect KUs from a given Java project.
First, we parse all Java source files of all the commits of the studied projects
using the Eclipse JDT framework [12]. The JDT framework generates an Ab-
stract Syntax Tree (AST) for the source code and provides visitors for every
element of such tree, including names, types (class, interfaces), expressions,
statements, and declarations.2
    To detect a KU, we refer to the set of key capabilities of that unit (Table 8).
For instance, to detect the presence of the Generics and Collections KU ([K8]),
we use the visitors provided by JDT to detect the capabilities associated with
that unit, such as [K8, C1] create and use a generic class and [K8, C2] create
and use ArrayList, TreeSet, TreeMap, and ArrayDeque objects. For instance, using type
visitors, we can determine whether a given class is a generic class ([K8, C1]).
Similarly, using statement visitors, we can find instantiations of an ArrayList
([K8, C2]).
    During our code analysis, we also collect binding information of methods,
classes, and variables (e.g., org.eclipse.jdt.core.dom.IVariableBinding resolves vari-
able binding). In our study, we discard type bindings to third-party libraries
because our focus is on studying the KUs that are associated with the source
code that are written by the developers of the studied subject systems. Finally,
we detect the presence of a KU if we can identify the usage of any of the key
capabilities associated with that KU in a Java file.
    We count the occurrences of KUs per Java source file. For example, one of
the capabilities associated with the Inheritance KU ([K6]) is to create abstract
classes ([K6,C4]). Hence, if we find a declaration of an abstract class in a
given Java file X.java belonging to a subject system S, then the counter for
Inheritance KU that is associated with file X.java is incremented by one. In
other words, for each file, we produce a vector V containing the counts of each
KU in that file.


3 Data Collection

Our data collection process contains three main steps. First, we retrieve the
source code and pull-request (PR) data from real-world, active Java software
projects. We refer to these projects as our studied projects. Next, we determine
the incidence of KUs in the source code of all commits of our studied projects.
Finally, we represent developers’ expertise with KUs. Figure 2 presents an
  2 The grammar employed by JDT can be seen at https://github.com/eclipse/eclipse.

jdt.core/blob/master/org.eclipse.jdt.core/grammar/java.g
8                                                                                                      Md Ahasanuzzaman et al.


Table 1 The identified Java programming language knowledge units (KUs).
       Knowledge unit
                                                                                 Definition
           (KU)
    [K1] Data Type KU          This KU describes the declaration and initialization of different types of variables (e.g., primitive type and
                               parameterized type.)
    [K2] Operator and Deci-    This KU describes the usage of different Java operators (e.g., assignment, logical, and bit-wise operators)
    sion KU                    and conditional statements (e.g, if, if-else, and switch statements).
    [K3] Array KU              This KU describes declaration, instantiation, initialization and the usage of one-dimensional and multi-
                               dimensional arrays.
    [K4] Loop KU               This KU describes the execution of a set of instruction-s/methods repeatedly using for, while, and do-
                               while statements and the skipping and stopping of a repetitive execution of instructions and methods
                               using continue and break statements.
    [K5] Method and En-        This KU describes the creation of methods with parameters, the use of overloaded methods and construc-
    capsulation KU             tors, the usage of constructor chaining, the creation of methods with variable length arguments, and the
                               usage of different access modifiers. This KU also describes encapsulation mechanisms, such as creating a
                               set and get method for controlling data access, generating immutable classes, and updating object type
                               parameters of a method.
    [K6] Inheritance KU        This KU describes developing code with child class and parent class relationship, using polymorphism (e.g.,
                               developing code with overridden methods), creating abstract classes and interfaces, and accessing methods
                               and fields of the parent’s class.
    [K7] Advanced      Class   This KU describes developing code that uses the final keyword, creating inner classes including static
    Design KU                  inner classes, local classes, nested classes, and anonymous inner classes, using enumerated types including
                               methods and constructors in an enum type, and developing code using @override annotator.
    [K8] Generics and Col-     This KU describes the creation and usage of generic classes, usage of different types of interfaces (e.g., List
    lection KU                 Interface, Deque Interface, Map Interface, and Set Interface), and comparison of objects using interfaces
                               (e.g., java.util.Comparator, and java.lang.Comparable).
    [K9] Functional Inter-     This KU describes developing code that uses different versions of defined functional interfaces (e.g., prim-
    face KU                    itive, binary, and unary) and developing code with user-defined functional interfaces.
    [K10] Stream API KU        This KU describes developing code with lambda expressions and Stream APIs. This includes developing
                               code to extract data from an object using peek() and map() methods, searching for data with search
                               methods (e.g., findFirst) of the Stream classes, sorting a collection using Stream API, iterating code with
                               foreach of Stream, and saving results to a collection using the collect method.
    [K11] Exception KU         This KU describes the creation of try-catch blocks, the usage of multiple catch blocks, the usage of try-
                               with-resources statements, the invocation of methods throwing an exception, and the use of assertion for
                               testing invariants.
    [K12] Date time API        This KU describes creating and managing date-based and time-based events using Instant, Period, Du-
    KU                         ration, and TemporalUnit, and working with dates and times across timezones and managing changes
                               resulting from daylight savings, including Format date and times values.
    [K13] IO KU                This KU describes reading and writing data from console and files and using basic Java input-output
                               packages (e.g., java.io.package).
    [K14] NIO KU               This KU describes how to interact files and directories with the new non-blocking input/output API (e.g.,
                               using the Path interface to operate on file and directory paths. This KU also includes other file-related
                               operations (e.g., read, delete, copy, move, and manage metadata of a file or directory).
    [K15] String Processing    This KU describes searching, parsing, replacing strings using regular expressions, and using string format-
    KU                         ting.
    [K16] Concurrency KU       This KU describes many functionalities that are related to thread execution and parallel programming.
                               Some of these functionalities include: creating worker threads using Runnable and Callable classes, using an
                               ExecutorService to concurrently execute tasks, using synchronized keyword and java.util.concurrent.atomic
                               package to control the order of thread execution, using java.util.concurrent classes and using a parallel
                               fork/join framework.
    [K17] Database KU          This KU describes the creation of database connection, submitting queries and reading results using the
                               core JDBC API.
    [K18] Localization KU      This KU describes reading and setting the locale (Oracle defines a locale as “a specific geographical,
                               political, or cultural region”) by using the Locale object, and building a resource bundle for each locale,
                               and loading a resource bundle in an application.
    [K19] Java Persistence     This KU describes the usage of object/relational mapping facilities for managing relational data in Java
    KU                         applications. With this knowledge, developers can learn how to map, store, update and retrieve data from
                               relational databases to Java objects and vice versa.
    [K20] Enterprise Java      This KU is the knowledge about managing server-side components that encapsulate the business logic of
    Bean KU                    an application.
    [K21] Java Message Ser-    This KU describes how to create, send, receive and read messages using reliable, asynchronous, and loosely
    vice API KU                coupled communication.
    [K22] SOAP Web Ser-        This KU describes how to create and use the Simple Object Access Protocol for sending and receiving
    vice KU                    requests and responses across the Internet using JAX-WS and JAXB APIs.
    [K23] Servlet KU           This KU describes handling HTTP requests, parameters, and cookies and how to process them on the
                               server sites with appropriate responses.
    [K24] Java REST API        This KU describes creating web s services and clients according to the Representational State Transfer
    KU                         architectural pattern using JAX-RS APIs.
    [K25] Websocket KU         This KU describes how to create and handle bi-directional, full-duplex, and real-time communication
                               between the server and the web browser.
    [K26] Java Server Faces    This KU describes building UI component-based and event-oriented web interfaces using the standard
    KU                         JavaServer Faces (JSF) APIs.
    [K27] Contexts and         This KU describes how to manage the lifecycle of stateful components using domain-specific lifecycle
    Dependency  Injection      contexts and type-safely inject components (services) into client objects.
    (CDI) KU
    [K28] Batch Processing     This KU describes how to create and manage long-running jobs on schedule or on demand for performing
    KU                         on bulk-data, and without manual intervention.
Using KUs of PLs to Recommend Reviewers for PRs: An Empirical Study                                                         9


                        [1] Collect commit data and pull-request data of
                                      the studied projects

                                                                       [1.2] Download the             297,738 commit data
                                                                      commit history of the              of the selected
                                                                     selected Java software             10 Java projects
                                               List of 10 top                projects
                  [1.1] Select actively         active Java
                    maintained Java               projects
                   software projects                                  [1.3] Download the pull           65,851 PR data
                                                                     request (PR) data of the            of the selected
                                                                      selected Java software            10 Java projects
                                                                              projects




                       [2] Collect KUs from every commit of the studied projects


                                          [2.1] Detect KUs in the source
                                                       code




                              [3] Represent developers' expertise with KUs

                              [3.1] Determine the                                                        KUs expertise
                                                                [3.2] Represent every
                             incidence of KUs on                                                         representation
                                                                 developer with a KU
                                                                                                              data
                               changed Java files                       vector




        Preliminary Study: Do       RQ1: How accurately           RQ2: Can KUREC be                    RQ3: How
        KUs provide a new lens     can KUREC recommend           made more accurate by             reasonable are the
         to study developers’         code reviewers in              combining it with          recommendations made
              expertise?                pull requests?           existing recommenders?               by KUREC?



Fig. 2 An overview of our data collection process.



overview of our data collection process. We describe each step in more detail
below.

• Step 1) Collect commit data and pull-request data of the studied projects:
– Step 1.1) Select actively maintained Java software projects. In our study,
we focus on Java projects hosted on GitHub and that are both popular and
actively maintained. However, there exist toy projects, personal projects, aca-
demic projects, and websites on GitHub that fulfil those criteria [28]. Hence,
in order to select real-world software projects, we use the dataset of engineered
projects made available by Munaiah et al. [44]. More specifically, we first se-
lect the projects from the list that are tagged with the Java language. Next,
to study popular and active projects, we filter out projects that have less than
100 stars. We also filter out those that did not receive commits in the past year
(relative to our data collection date, which is January 30th, 2022). Then, we
sort the list of projects in decreasing order of the average number of commits
per month. Finally, we select the top-10 projects from this list.
– Step 1.2) Download the commit history of the selected Java software projects.
To download the commit history of our studied software projects, we git
10                                                        Md Ahasanuzzaman et al.


clone the repository of each project. The list of projects and their associated
GitHub repository links can be found in our supplementary material package.
Then, we use PyDriller [60] to collect all the commit information from the
projects, such as commit hash id, commit author name, commit author-date,
commit message, and list of modified files in a commit. To retrieve the source
code (snapshot) of a particular commit of a project, we use the command git
checkout commit_hash, where commit_hash is the commit id.
– Step 1.3) Download the pull request (PR) data of the selected Java software
projects. To download the PR data of the studied projects, we use the GitHub
Rest API3 . For example, to collect all the PRs of the Apache HBase project,
we issue a GET request to https://api.github.com/repos/apache/hbase/
pulls?state=all&per_page=100. We also use the GitHub API to collect re-
view comments, discussion comments, changed files, and reviewer information
for every PR. We use PRs and their associated metadata in RQ1 and RQ2.
• Step 2) Collect KUs from every commit of the studied projects:
– Step 2.1) Detecting KUs in the source code. We detect the KUs in each Java
file of every commit (i.e., every snapshot) of the entire history of our studied
projects. To detect KUs, we employ our custom detector built on top of Eclipse
JDT (c.f., Section 2.3).
• Step 3) Represent developers’ expertise with KUs:
– Step 3.1) Determine the incidence of KUs on changed Java files. First, we
identify all the Java files that are changed in every commit by filtering in those
files with a .java extension. Then, we collect the commit’s author name (i.e.,
the developer who actually performed the code changes), such that we can
map changed Java files to developers. Next, we count the occurrences of KUs
in each of the changed Java files of every commit. This count represents the
KU expertise gained by the commit’s author from having changed
those Java files. Our rationale for counting KUs from the entire file (instead
of a diff) is that a developer often needs to understand the entire Java file
in order to be able to modify it even a small portion of it. Finally, for every
developer, we sum the count of the occurrences for every KU that is identified
in each changed file of the developer (see Figure 3).
– Step 3.2) Represent every developer with a KU vector. We represent the
expertise of every developer with a 28-position KU vector. Each position cor-
responds to a different KU (Table 1). In each vector position, we store the
ratio of the incidence of a KU. We calculate a developer’s ratio of the inci-
dence of a KU by dividing the sum of the occurrences of a KU detected from
the changed files of a developer to the total occurrences of the KU detected
from all the changed files (see Figure 3b - for simplicity, we only show three
KUs). At the end, we have a KU vector for every developer. This KU vector
captures a developer’s Java KU expertise. We henceforth refer to this vector
as Pku (D), where D is some studied developer.

 3   https://docs.github.com/en/rest/reference
Using KUs of PLs to Recommend Reviewers for PRs: An Empirical Study                                                    11

                   K1    K2   K3             K1        K2       K3    K1      K2    K3        K1     K2   K3
                   3     1    0              5         8        2        5     0    9         1      0     8




                                   F1                 F2                       F3        F4



                                            C1             C2            C3         C4




                                   (a) KU counts of the changed files of every commit


                              KU counts
                              per commit

                              K1        K2        K3                  KU counts               KU vector representing
                                                                     per developer            developer's expertise
                        C1    3         1         0                  K1       K2    K3             K1     K2   K3
                        C2    5         8         2                  8        9      2             8/14 9/9    2/19

                        C3    5         0         9
                                                                     K1       K2    K3             K1     K2   K3
                        C4    1         0         8                  6        0     17             6/14 0/9 17/19

                  Total KUs 14          9         19


                                                       (b) KU expertise representation

Fig. 3 Representing developers’ expertise with KUs. Here, Ki denotes ith knowledge unit,
Cj denotes jth commit and Fj denotes a changed file in Cj .



 Summary

  • Data collection date: January 20th, 2022
  • Data source: GitHub
  • Number of studied Java projects: 10
  • Number of studied commits: 297,738
  • Number of pull requests: 65,851
  • Pieces of data collected: java source code and pull requests
  • Datasets produced: developer expertise representation with KUs




4 Preliminary Study: Do KUs provide a new lens to study
developers’ expertise?

Motivation. Our KU-based expertise profile is derived from the key capabil-
ities of the Java building blocks. In this study, we want to group developers
according to their KU-based expertise profiles and study such groups of devel-
opers. Finding several groups with unique KU profiles can indicate that KUs
might be useful for code reviewer recommendations.
12                                                         Md Ahasanuzzaman et al.


Approach. We first cluster developers based on their KU-based expertise
profile. Next, we study the dispersion of clusters’ size. In the following, we
detail each of the steps that we follow for this study.
• Step 1) Cluster developers based on their KU-based expertise profiles. We
take the KU-based expertise profile Pku (D) of every developer D across all
studied projects and glue them together to build a matrix Pku (the procedure
for building Pku (D) is described in the step 3 of Section 3). To cluster de-
velopers according to their KU-based expertise profile, we apply the k-means
clustering algorithm to a dimentionality-reduced version of Pku . K-means is
one of the most popular clustering algorithms and has been widely used in
software engineering research [6, 26, 74, 79]. We detail the sub-steps of the
clustering procedure below.
– Step 1a) Reduce the dimensionality Pku . Due to the curse of dimensionality,
many clustering algorithms, including the k-means algorithm, perform poorly
on high dimensional data [51]. In simple terms, as the number of dimensions
in a dataset increases, distance measures become less meaningful, since the
distance between any pair of points in a high-dimensional space is almost the
same over a wide range of data distributions and distance functions [32]. To
overcome the dimensionality issue, a dimensionality reduction technique (e.g.,
Principal Component Analysis – PCA) can be applied to the data prior to
running the clustering algorithm [20, 21]. Since PCA has been proven beneficial
for the k-means algorithm [11], we reduce the dimensionality of our data by
applying PCA prior to running k-means.
    To apply PCA, we use the prcomp4 native function of the R language.
PCA transforms the data to a new coordinate plane, and each co-coordinate
of that plane is called a principal component. PCA generates as many princi-
pal components as the number of dimensions of the data. The first principal
component has the largest possible variance in the data, and each successor
component has as much of the remaining variability as possible. Similarly to
prior studies [18, 30, 70], we reduce data dimensionality by selecting the first-n
PCA components that account for at least 95% of the explained variance of
the data.
– Step 1b) Identify optimal number of clusters. The k-means algorithm takes
the number of clusters as an input parameter (K ). To identify the optimal num-
ber of clusters, we analyze the silhouette coefficient [58]. The silhouette coeffi-
cient is a popular measure that has been widely used in prior studies [2, 45, 50]
for determining the optimal number of clusters. The silhouette coefficient in-
dicates how similar an object (i.e., developer) is to its own cluster (cohesion)
in comparison to other clusters (separation). The silhouette coefficient ranges
from -1.0 to 1.0. A coefficient close to one indicates that the object well-
matches its own cluster and, simultaneously, poorly-matches its neighboring
clusters. If most objects have a high coefficient, then the clustering configura-
tion is deemed appropriate.

 4   https://www.rdocumentation.org/packages/stats/versions/3.6.2/topics/prcomp
Using KUs of PLs to Recommend Reviewers for PRs: An Empirical Study               13


    We run k-means for K values ranging from 2 to 100 and calculate the
median silhouette for each K value. Our rationale for using the median in lieu
of the mean is because the former is more robust to outliers (e.g., a clustering
with only few very badly clustered objects should still be considered a good
clustering overall) [58]. Next, we select the largest K among those that yield
a clustering with a median silhouette of 0.90 or higher. We avoid taking the
K that maximizes the median silhouette because it might be much lower than
some other K with an almost identical median silhouette. Our approach thus
prioritizes finding more clusters instead of obtaining just marginally better
clusterings (while still ensuring that the obtained clustering are appropriate
due to the high threshold for median silhouette).
– Step 1c) Create clusters of developers. To cluster developers using the k-
means algorithm, we employ the native kmeans function of R language5 . The
input dataset corresponds to the selected PCA components in Step 1a. The
number of clusters is set based on the results of Step 1b. Finally, we cluster
developers using the k-means algorithm and visualize the clusters using the
fviz_cluster function of the factoextra R package [29].
• Step 2) Characterize developer clusters using KU-based expertise profiles. To
characterize developer clusters using KU-based expertise profiles, we follow two
steps. First, we calculate a diffvalue , which we define as the difference between
the median value of a given KU within a cluster and the median value of the
given KU across all the clusters (i.e., the entire dataset). The diffvalue thus
indicates how the median value of a KU within a cluster compares to the
median value of that KU across all clusters. The intuition behind diffvalue is
to determine whether the values of a given KU K in C are either high or low
(in relative terms). Formally, we define diffvalue as follows:

               diffvalue (Pku , C , K ) = median(Subset(Pku , C, K))
                                      − median(Subset(Pku , K))

    Here, diffvalue (Pku , C , K ) returns the diffvalue for a given cluster C and
KU K from the KU-based expertise profile dataset Pku (see Step 1). The
Subset(Pku , K) corresponds to the column in Pku that matches the given KU
K. The Subset(Pku , C, K) filters Subset(Pku , K) by selecting only those rows
that are associated with developers from the cluster C.
    Next, we plot the diffvalue of every KU of each cluster in the form of a bar
plot. The interpretation of the bar plot is straightforward. A very narrow bar of
a KU within a cluster indicates that the median value of the KU in the cluster
is very close to the overall median of the KU. Conversely, a very wide bar
of a KU within a cluster indicates that the median of the KU in the cluster
is very different from the overall median. Hence, wide bars call for special
attention. To determine if a bar is too wide, we take median(Subset(Pku , C, K)
and determine whether it is outside the interquartile range (Q1 to Q3) of
 5   https://www.rdocumentation.org/packages/stats/versions/3.6.2/topics/kmeans
14                                                                                                                                                                                        Md Ahasanuzzaman et al.



        20


                                                                                                                                                              00



                                                                                                                                                                                                      ##
        10

                                                                                                                                                                                      "
                                                                                                                                                                                                                ((
                                                                                                                                                                   "?                           ●
                                                                                                                                                                                                ●

                                                                                                                                                      ?
                                                                                                                                                              ?
                                                                                                                                                                        ""
                                                               @@
                                                                                                                   2
                                                                                      2               2                     A
                                                                                                                            A
                                                                                          '           '        '
                                                                                                                                                          "
                                                                                 '
                                ,
                                            ,,4, − , , −− −− − ,             '                    '
                 14                                 −− − −−−                                                                                      )
                                                                                                                                                                                           ::
               1 4
                 CCC 1 3
                1C
                          4 313C 33343−
                           33333333333333
                                   33           −
                                                 3−−−
                                                 −
                                        33433 4− − − −        −                        +' '
                                                                                          +
                                                                                                                   '
                                                                                                                                                  &
         0   ● C3
             ●
             ●
             ●
             ●
             ●
             ●
             ●
             ●
              ●
              C
              ●
              ●●
             ●●
             ●●
              ●
             ●●
             ●●
             ●
             ●
             ●●
             ●●
             ●●
              ●
              C
              ●
              ●
              ●
               ●
               ●
               ●
               ●
               ●
               ●
                ●
                ●
                ●
                ●; ; ;33
                ●   ;
                           3;;333
                                 333 33 3−−− − − −−− −
                ● C 33333333333333
                                    3C   3 C − −− − −
                                               3
                                                                                 '
                                                                                   ' B
                                                                                     B    '
                                                                                                                       99                 )
              ●; C;; ;;; ;33;3 3 C
              ;●
                ;                                    −     ,                          '     '                                         )
               ;; ; ;; ;;; ;;C
                        ; ; ;; ;                         −
                                                                        <<                    '
                                                                                                                                     &
                                                                                                                            &                 &
                                              7
                   ; 6;
                         6
                                     C
                                                  7
                                                                    =
                                                                    =                                                            &
                    67 7
                      7*
                          6
                             7
                             6             76                                                             >>
                                                                /
                            *        /              /        6 /
PCA2




                                         *                 /                                      D

                                                                                      D
                                                                             D
                                                                                 88                                             55
                              ●!%
                                 !
                              ● !




       −10                                   %                                                                                                                                    ●
                                                                                                                                                                                  ●

                                                                                                                                 $$
                                                         %
                                                                                                                                                                   ●
                                                                                                                                                                   ●



                                                                                                                                                                                                            ●
                                                                                                                                                                                                            ●



                                                                                                                                                                                  ●
                                                                                                                                                                                  ●




       −20




       −30


                  0                                                                   10                                                      20                             30                 40         50
                                                                                                                                                          PCA1


Fig. 4 Visualization of developer clusters with KU-based expertise profiles. Polygons rep-
resent clusters and symbols represent developers.



Subset(Pku , K). In the positive case, the bar is emphasized with a vivid (non-
transparent) color.
• Step 3) Study the dispersion of clusters’ size. We calculate the Gini index [73]
for the distribution of cluster sizes. The Gini index is a measure of statistical
dispersion among values of a frequency distribution. This index ranges from
0.0 to 1.0, with 0.0 representing perfect equality and 1.0 representing perfect
inequality. A Gini index close to one indicates greater inequality in the size of
the clusters (e.g., a single cluster containing most of the observations).

Findings. Observation 1) KU-based expertise profiles form 71 dif-
ferent clusters of developers, indicating that KUs offer a fine-grained
lens to study developers’ expertise. Figure 4 presents a visualization of
the 71 developer clusters that are formed with KU-based expertise profiles.
We observe that the generated clusters are separated from each other. We
also observe that the number of cluster members are different across the clus-
ters. The Gini index for clusters’ size is 0.96, indicating that there exists very
strong inequality (i.e., a few clusters contain most of the developers). Indeed,
we observe that the largest cluster contains 80% of all developers. That is, the
majority of the studied developers have similar KU expertise. We also observe
Using KUs of PLs to Recommend Reviewers for PRs: An Empirical Study                                              15

                                                     Cluster−18             Cluster−22             Cluster−27
                                  data_type
                         operator_decision
                                        array
                                         loop
                   method_encapsulation
                                inheritance
                       exception_handling
                  advanced_class_design
                         generic_collection
                      functional_interface
                                stream_api
                             date_time_api
                                      java_io
                                    java_nio
                               concurrency
                                 data_base
                                localization
                         string_processing
                        persistence_object
                    enterprise_java_bean
                         message_service
                              soap_service
                               servlet_web
                                     rest_api
                             websocket_api
Knowledge units




                      jfs_web_application
                                   cdi_bean
                  enterprise_concurrency
                         batch_processing
                                                     Cluster−28             Cluster−55             Cluster−65
                                  data_type
                         operator_decision
                                        array
                                         loop
                   method_encapsulation
                                inheritance
                       exception_handling
                  advanced_class_design
                         generic_collection
                      functional_interface
                                stream_api
                             date_time_api
                                      java_io
                                    java_nio
                               concurrency
                                 data_base
                                localization
                         string_processing
                        persistence_object
                    enterprise_java_bean
                         message_service
                              soap_service
                               servlet_web
                                     rest_api
                             websocket_api
                      jfs_web_application
                                   cdi_bean
                  enterprise_concurrency
                         batch_processing
                                                0   20       40   60   0   20       40   60   0   20       40   60
                                                                            diff_value


Fig. 5 Visualization of the characteristics of the identified clusters via knowledge units.


that 57% (41 out of 71) of the generated clusters are singleton clusters (i.e., the
size of these clusters is one). These singleton clusters are special because the
single developer in them has a unique KU-based expertise profile compared to
all other studied developers.
Observation 2) Clusters generated from KU-based expertise profiles
reveal developers with different code expertise. We observe that each
cluster has its own intrinsic characteristics derived from the incidence level of
each KU. To illustrate our point, we randomly select six clusters and visualize
their characteristics in Figure 5. The vivid colored KU bar in a cluster indicates
that the median value of the KU in that cluster is outside the interquartile
range (Q1 to Q3) of the median of the KU in the entire dataset. Hence, these
KUs with wide bars indicate important characteristics of the cluster. The
wider a vivid coloured KU bar is, the more prominent the KU is among the
developers of that particular cluster. As we observe Figure 5, the “Stream
API KU” is wider among the vivid colored KU bars in Cluster-18. As such,
the “Stream API KU” is prominent among developers of Cluster-18 and an
important characteristic. Similarly, “Java NIO KU” is prominent in Cluster-
22, “Rest API KU” is prominent in Cluster-27, “Functional Interface KU” is
16                                                             Md Ahasanuzzaman et al.


prominent in Cluster-28, “Database KU” is prominent in Cluster-55 and “Date
Time API KU” is prominent in Cluster-65. Such a prominent KU of a cluster
indicates that developers of that cluster encounter the KU more frequently
than other developers while performing code changes. Hence, developers of
the cluster have more expertise in code changes related to that particular wide
vivid coloured KU. These findings show that clusters vary from one another
and each cluster reveal developers with different code expertise.
 Summary

 Do KUs provide a new lens to study developers’ expertise?


 Yes. Through the lens of KUs, we can identify 71 different clusters of developers. Each
 cluster hosts a set of developers with unique KU-based expertise profile.




5 A study of code reviewer recommendation using KUs

In the following, we address our three research questions. For each research
question, we discuss our motivation for studying it, the approach used to
answer it, and the findings that we observe.


5.1 RQ1: How accurately can KUREC recommend code reviewers in pull
requests?

Motivation. As we discuss in Section 1, mapping different expertises to indi-
vidual developers is a key requirement for effective code review assignment. As
we show in the preliminary study, KUs can capture developers’ programming
language expertise. Hence, in this research question we build a KU-based code
reviewer recommender system called KUREC and evaluate its performance.
KUREC takes into the code contributions (commits) and prior code reviews
performed by an individual when issuing reviewer recommendations.
    We clarify that our goal is not to design the most accurate code recom-
mender system possible, but rather to determine where its performance stands
in comparison to solid baselines. Such a rationale derives from the novelty sur-
rounding the conceptualization and operationalization of KUs.
Approach. We use pull requests to train and test both KUREC and other
four baseline recommenders. The key assumption of KUREC is that the
code reviewers of a given PR are most likely experts in the KUs
that appear in the changed files of the given PR. Our approach for
building and evaluating KUREC is summarized in Figure 6. In the following,
we describe each step of our approach in detail.
• Step 1) Filter the PR dataset. In section 3, we discussed how we collected
pull request (PR) data. Since our objective is to build a recommender for code
reviewers, we only select those PRs that (i) include changed Java files, (ii) had
Using KUs of PLs to Recommend Reviewers for PRs: An Empirical Study                                                                                17




                                               Step 1) Filter the                Step 2) Generate                Train PR data
                Historical PR                    PR dataset                   train and test PR data
                  data set




                  Historical
                   commit
                                                                                                                 Test PR data
                   data set




                                                  Step 3) Recommend reviewers using KUREC
                                                                                                                                        List of
                                                                                                                                   recommenation
                   Step 3.1) Construct a
                  KU-based development                                                                                                of KUREC
                   expertise profile for all
                        developers                                    Step 3.3) Calculate the
                                                                                                       Step 3.4) Recommend
                                                                      expertise score of every
                                                                                                            developers
                   Step 3.2) Construct a                                     developer
                     KU-based review
                   expertise profile for all
                        developers




          Step 4) Construct baseline recommenders                                           Step 5) Evaluate                  Step 6) Rank
              for recommending code reviewers                                                recommenders                    recommenders


                                                                         List of
                                                                    recommenation
                                                                     of a reference
                                                                         system


Fig. 6 Our approach for building and evaluating KUREC.


at least one reviewer assigned to them, and (iii) are in a closed status. To
ensure that we have enough PR data for training and testing a recommender,
we only select those studied projects that contain at least 100 PRs. As a result
of applying this filter, we remove the Cdap and Jruby projects from our study.
As a result, we obtain a PR dataset for eight projects.
• Step 2) Generate train and test PR data. We need to split the PR data for
training and testing the recommenders. To split the PR dataset of a given
project, we first sort the dataset chronologically. Our rationale is to avoid
training recommenders with future data and testing those projects with past
data (data leakage problem [8]). Then, in accordance with several prior stud-
ies [49, 69, 77], we split each dataset into a training dataset containing the
initial 80% of the data and a testing dataset containing the remaining 20% of
the data.
• Step 3) Recommend reviewers using KUREC. For each PR in the test
dataset, we perform the following substeps to build KUREC and get its rec-
ommendations:
– Step 3.1) Construct a KU-based development expertise profile for all devel-
opers. We first select all commits that are performed prior to the opening date
of the PR in question. Then, we follow the same approach that we present
in Step 3 of Section 3 to construct a KU-based development expertise profile
for every developer. The collection of all profiles is represented with a matrix
18                                                         Md Ahasanuzzaman et al.


DevExpKU (Di , KUj ), where Di refers to a developer i that performed at
least one of the selected commits and KUj refers to one of the 28 KUs listed
in Table 1.
– Step 3.2) Construct a KU-based review expertise profile for all developers.
We first select all those PRs that were created prior to the given PR. Then,
we collect all changed files that are requested for review in each of the selected
PRs. Next, we proceed analogously to Step 3.1, which results in the construc-
tion of a KU-based reviewer expertise profile for every developer. The collec-
tion of all these profiles is represented with a matrix RevExpKU (Di , KUj ),
where Di refers to a developer i that performed at least one code review for
the selected PRs and KUj refers to one of the 28 KUs listed in Table 1.
– Step 3.3) Calculate the expertise score of every developer. A developer who
recently read or worked on a piece of code is likely to have fresher and clearer
memories about the properties of such code (including the KUs that appear
therein) [31]. It is thus not surprising that the recency of code changes and
reviews has been taken into account by several reviewer recommenders [49, 78].
KUREC also takes recency into account to calculate the final expertise score
of every developer.
     Following our terminology, let DevExpKU (Di ) be the KU-based develop-
ment expertise profile of a developer Di . KUREC adds a development recency
bonus to each KUj in DevExpKU (Di ) by (a) determining the last time that
Di committed a file containing KUj and (b) judging how recent that is. More
specifically, let C be the last commit by Di that includes a file with KUj . The
recency bonus of KUj for Di is calculated as the inverse of the number of days
between the commit date of C and the opening date of the PR in question.
Formally, we represent the development recency bonus of KUj for developer
Di as RecDevKU (Di , KUj ).
     Analogously, KUREC also adds a review recency bonus to each KUj in
RevExpKU s(Di ). Let R be the last code review by Di in which some reviewed
file contained KUj . In this case, the recency bonus of KUj for Di is calculated
as the inverse of the number of days between the opening date of the PR that
underwent R and the opening date of the PR in question. We represent the
review recency bonus of KUj for developer Di as RecRevKU (Di , KUj ). Lastly,
KUREC attributes a final KU-based expertise score ExpertiseScore(Di ) to
each developer as follows:
           DevScore(Di )= N
                         P
                          j=1 [DevExpKU (Di ,KUj )+RecDevKU (Di ,KUj )]



           RevScore(Di )= N
                         P
                           j=1 [RevExpKU (Di ,KUj )+RecRevKU (Di ,KUj )]



                  ExpertiseScore(Di )=DevScore(Di )+RevScore(Di )


    Here, 1 ≤ N ≤ 28 is the number of KUs that appear in the changed files
of the PR in question (i.e., a PR from the test dataset). Our rationale is that
a reviewer of a given PR should be an expert in the KUs that appear in the
changed files of such a PR.
Using KUs of PLs to Recommend Reviewers for PRs: An Empirical Study           19


– Step 3.4) Recommend developers. We recommend the top K ranked devel-
opers based on their expertise score, where K ranges from 1 to 5.
• Step 4) Construct baseline recommenders for recommending code reviewers.
To evaluate the performance of KUREC, we construct four different reviewer
recommenders: (a) a commit-frequency-based recommender (CF) [57], (b) a
review-frequency-based recommender (RF) [75], (c) a modification-expertise-
based recommender (ER) [23, 38] and (d) a review-frequency-based recom-
mender (CHREV) [78]. We build the CF recommender because commit fre-
quency has frequently been used as an indicator for development expertise [57].
We choose RF as a baseline for its simplicity to build the recommender [75]. We
select ER as other baseline recommender because it has been widely used in
other studies [23, 37, 38, 41]. Finally, we choose the CHREV recommender for
two reasons. First, CHREV has been shown to outperform three other recom-
menders, namely REVFINDER [62], xFinder [27], and REVCOM. Second, the
steps to reimplement CHREV are clearly described and easy to follow [78]. We
briefly describe the construction process of these four baseline recommenders
below.
(i) Commit-frequency-based recommender (CF): For a given PR in the test
dataset, CF first selects all the commits that are performed before the opening
date of the given PR. Next, the recommender counts the number of commits
that are performed by each developer. Finally, the recommender sorts devel-
opers in decreasing order of commit counts and recommends the top-k ones.
(ii) Review-frequency-based recommender (RF): For a given PR in the test
dataset, RF first selects all the PRs that are created prior to the opening
date of the given PR. Then, RF counts the number of reviews per developer.
Next, developers are sorted in decreasing order of review count. Finally, RF
recommends the top-k ranked developers.
(iii) Modification-expertise-based recommender (ER): The ER recommender
relies on the assumption that a developer who last modified a source code file
is the most appropriate team member to review new changes to that same
file [37]. The rationale is that such a developer knows that file and potentially
has fresh memories of its characteristics (e.g., structure, dependencies, behav-
ior, and purpose). The ER recommender has been considered in several prior
studies [23, 37, 38, 41]. We adapt the ER recommender for our context as
follows. For a given PR in the test dataset, ER first identifies all the changed
files in the PR. We refer to this set of files as S. Next, a list of developers
who modified any of those files in the past (i.e., in commits preceding the PR
in question) is generated. Then, ER sorts developers in reverse chronological
order based on the date of their last changed file in S. Finally, ER recommends
the top-k ranked developers.
(iv) Review-history-based recommender (CHREV): For a given PR p in the
test dataset with a changed file f , CHREV tracks the contribution of each
past reviewer of that file across all PRs preceding p. CHREV distills review
contribution into three measures: (1) total number of review comments con-
20                                                             Md Ahasanuzzaman et al.


tributed to previous code changes in all PRs prior to the given one (C), (2)
total number of workdays (a work day is considered as a day on which a re-
viewer contributed at least one review comment to at least one changed file)
(W) and (3) recency of the review comments (T). To calculate these measures
for a changed file f of PR p, all PRs preceding p and that contain the changed
file f are used. Finally, a contribution factor termed xFactor is calculated
based on these three measures as follows:
                            C      W
                                f             1
                                  + Wf0 + |Tf −T   if |Tf − Tf0 | > 0
                             Cf0                0
                                                f|
                            
                                    f

          xF actor(r, f ) =
                             Cf0 + Wf0 + 1        if |Tf − Tf0 | = 0
                            
                            
                              Cf    W f


    Here, Cf is the number of review comments that are contributed by a
reviewer r for the file f and Cf0 is the total number of review comments that
are written for the file f. Wf is the number of workdays of the reviewer r on
which they contributed review comments for the file f and Wf0 is the total
number of workdays on which review comments were contributed for the file
f. Tf is the most recent workday of the reviewer r with the file f and Tf0 is the
most workday on which a review comment was contributed for the file f.
    Finally, the xFactor for all the changed files in the given PR are aggregated
for each reviewer, and a score is generated for all the reviewers who contributed
to the review of these changed files in past PRs prior to the given one. The
final score is calculated as follows:

                                      N
                                      X
                         Score(r) =         xF actor(r, fi )
                                      i=1

   The reviewers are ranked in descending order of their final score values and
the top-K reviewers are recommended.
• Step 5) Evaluate recommenders. To evaluate the performance of recom-
menders, we use top-k accuracy [62, 68, 78], and MAP [25, 71], as they are
both widely used in the evaluation of recommenders within software engineer-
ing. We calculate these measures using the same formulations as Xie et al.
[71]):
                                  P
                                         isCorrect(r, T op − k)
               Top-k accuracy = r∈R                                      (1)
                                              |R|

   Here, R denotes the set of PRs in the test dataset. The isCorrect(r, T op−k)
returns 1 if at least one of top-k developers is the correct reviewer of the PR
r and returns 0 otherwise.
   The top-k accuracy cannot measure how good the recommender’s perfor-
mance is in ranking the recommended reviewers. For example, the correct
reviewer of a PR is ra and two recommenders (A and B) recommend top-3
reviewers. Now, A recommends hrd , re , ra i and B recommends hra , rb , rd i. The
Using KUs of PLs to Recommend Reviewers for PRs: An Empirical Study          21


top-k accuracy is equal for both A and B recommenders because they cor-
rectly recommend one reviewer (ra ). However, in terms of ranking the correct
reviewer, recommender B’s ranking is better than A’s ranking. Because recom-
mender B recommends the correct reviewers at the top one ranked position.
Whereas recommender A recommends the correct reviewer at the third posi-
tion. To understand how good the recommender’s performance is in ranking
the recommended reviewers, we calculate the Mean Average Precision (MAP)
metric [25, 71]. MAP assigns higher importance to the results at top ranks.
To calculate MAP, we first calculate the Average Precision (AP):
                                    Pk   s(i)
                                       i=1i × rel(i)
                          AP @k =      Pk                                   (2)
                                        i=1 rel(i)

    Here, i is the position of each developer in the recommended list of de-
velopers, and s(i) is the sequence number of the correct developer at position
i. The rel(i) returns 1 if the ith developer in the list is correct and 0 other-
wise. M AP @k is the average of AP @k over all the PRs in the test dataset.
For example, we recommend K = 5 developers (d1, d2, d3, d4, d5) and the
1-st, 3-rd and 5-th developers are correct. The sequence number of d1, d3, and
d5 are 1, 2, and 3, i.e., s(1) = 1, s(3) = 2, and s(5) = 3. Then, the AP@5
can be calculated as ( 11 + 32 + 35 ). MAP@5 averages the AP@5s across all the
recommended lists of the PRs in the test dataset.
• Step 6) Rank recommenders. To rank the recommenders for a given evalua-
tion metric (e.g., MAP), we first group the results of a recommender across all
top-k recommendations (for k in 1 to 5) and studied projects. This grouping
leads to a distribution with 40 data points (5 recommendations × 8 studied
projects). Next, we apply the Scott-Knott ESD technique (SK-ESD) [17, 40,
61] to obtain a ranking of the recommenders. The SK-ESD is a method of mul-
tiple comparison that leverages a hierarchical clustering to partition the set
of treatment values (e.g., medians or means) into statistically distinct groups
with non-negligible difference [40].
Findings. Observation 3) KUREC performs as well as the top-
performing baseline recommender (RF) and outperforms the re-
maining three baselines. Figure 7 presents the distribution of top-k accu-
racy and Figure 8 presents the distribution of MAP across the studied projects.
The recommenders are grouped according to their Scott-Knott ESD rank. We
observe that our KUREC achieves the highest rank along with the RF among
the baseline recommenders in both top-k accuracy and MAP. We observe that
the absolute difference of the median top-k accuracy between the KUREC
and the RF is only 0.08 and the absolute difference of median MAP between
these two recommenders is only 0.05. Even though the medians differ a little,
the performance of our KUREC and the RF, the top-performing baseline rec-
ommender, is identical from an effect size standpoint. We also observe that
our KUREC achieves a higher rank than the remaining three baseline recom-
menders (e.g., CHREV, ER and CF) in both top-k accuracy and MAP. Such
22                                                                              Md Ahasanuzzaman et al.


a result indicates that our KUREC outperform these baseline recommenders
and can be used effectively for recommending code reviewers in PRs.


                                         Rank 1                                   Rank 2        Rank 3

                 1.00


                 0.90                                                       ●




                 0.80


                 0.70
Top−k Accuracy




                 0.60


                 0.50


                 0.40


                 0.30


                 0.20


                 0.10

                                                                            ●

                 0.00

                        RF   AD_FREQ   AD_HYBRID   AD_REC    KUREC        CHREV            ER    CF
                                                    Recommender Systems



Fig. 7 The distribution of top-k accuracy (k changes from 1 to 5) of the recommenders
across the studied projects. Recommender systems are grouped according to their Scott-
Knott ESD rank.



Observation 4) The performance of our KUREC is more stable than
that of the top-performing baseline recommender (RF). As we observe
from Figure 7 and Figure 8, the interquartile range of our KUREC is smaller
than the RF in both top-k accuracy and MAP. For MAP, the interquartile
range of our KUREC is only 0.25, whereas the interquartile range of the RF
is 0.56. Such a result indicates that KUREC is more stable than the RF.
    We can also notice from Table 2 and Table 3 that the performance of
our KUREC is stable. Here, Table 2 presents the top-k accuracy results and
Table 3 presents the MAP results across the studied projects. We observe that
the minimum top-k accuracy and MAP of our KUREC are always above 0.20,
whereas these values could reach 0.00 for the baseline recommenders (see the
last column of Table 2 and Table 3). For example, in Apache ActiveMQ, the
minimum top-k accuracy and the MAP of CF and CHREV are 0.00. We can
even notice unstable performance in the top-performing recommender (RF).
The minimum top-k accuracy and MAP are 0.00 for the RF in Apache Storm
and Elastic Search projects. In Elastic Search, the top-k accuracy of the RF is
the worst among the baseline recommenders. On the other hand, our KUREC
outperforms all the baseline recommenders including the RF. Such a result
Using KUs of PLs to Recommend Reviewers for PRs: An Empirical Study                                                    23

                                                Rank 1                     Rank 2           Rank 3   Rank 4   Rank 5

                               1.00


                               0.90


                               0.80
Mean Average Precision (MAP)




                               0.70


                               0.60


                               0.50


                               0.40


                               0.30


                               0.20


                               0.10


                               0.00

                                      AD_REC   AD_FREQ   AD_HYBRID    RF            KUREC   CHREV     ER       CF
                                                                     Recommender Systems



Fig. 8 The distribution of MAP@k (k changes from 1 to 5) of the recommenders across the
studied projects. Recommenders are grouped according to their Scott-Knott ESD rank.



indicates that our KUREC is more stable than the RF. In any recommender,
stability is a desired property because a stable recommender can gain users’
trust and acceptance of recommendations [1]. Based on our aforementioned
results, we can conclude that our KUREC is he best recommender among the
baseline recommenders since our KUREC performs identically to the top one
but is more stable.
                     Summary

                               RQ1: How accurately can KUREC recommend code reviewers in pull re-
                               quests?


                               Yes. Our KUREC recommender is the best option among the baselines. In particular,
                               • KUREC performs as well as the top-performing baseline recommender (RF).
                               • KUREC has a more stable performance than the top-performing recommender (RF).




5.2 RQ2: Can KUREC be made more accurate by combining it with existing
recommenders?

Motivation. In Section 5.1, we observe that each recommender has its own
strength (e.g., the KUREC leverages both development expertise and review
expertise) to perform a better recommendation and its own weakness (e.g., the
24                                                           Md Ahasanuzzaman et al.


Table 2 The top-k accuracy values of the studied recommenders.

             Type of    Recomme-              Top-k Accuracy               Min
  Project
            Recomm-     nder Name                                         Top-k
              ender                   k=1    k=2    k=3    k=4    k=5    Accuracy
                       CF             0.00   0.00   0.00   0.05   0.05     0.00
                       RF             0.75   0.75   0.80   0.85   0.90     0.75
            Baseline
                       ER             0.20   0.25   0.25   0.25   0.25     0.20
Apache                 CHREV          0.00   0.20   0.20   0.20   0.30     0.00
ActiveMQ
            KU         KUREC          0.40   0.80   0.80   0.80   0.80     0.40
                       AD_FREQ        0.70   0.75   0.80   0.80   0.85     0.70
            Combined   AD_REC         0.60   0.60   0.65   0.65   0.70     0.60
                       AD_HYBRID      0.65   0.65   0.70   0.70   0.75     0.65
                       CF             0.46   0.75   0.79   0.83   0.83     0.46
                       RF             0.54   0.92   0.92   0.92   0.96     0.54
            Baseline
                       ER             0.46   0.63   0.71   0.79   0.79     0.46
Apache                 CHREV          0.38   0.42   0.50   0.54   0.54     0.38
Groovy
            KU         KUREC          0.54   0.79   0.92   0.96   0.96     0.54
                       AD_FREQ        0.46   0.75   0.88   0.92   0.92     0.46
            Combined   AD_REC         0.46   0.71   0.83   0.88   0.88     0.46
                       AD_HYBRID      0.38   0.71   0.88   0.92   0.92     0.38
                       CF             0.33   0.56   0.62   0.69   0.73     0.33
                       RF             0.53   0.80   0.80   0.84   0.87     0.53
            Baseline
                       ER             0.42   0.47   0.49   0.53   0.58     0.42
Apache                 CHREV          0.33   0.36   0.38   0.38   0.40     0.33
Lucene
            KU         KUREC          0.53   0.69   0.80   0.89   0.93     0.53
                       AD_FREQ        0.47   0.67   0.78   0.87   0.93     0.47
            Combined   AD_REC         0.47   0.67   0.80   0.89   0.93     0.47
                       AD_HYBRID      0.49   0.67   0.78   0.87   0.93     0.49
                       CF             0.17   0.22   0.26   0.29   0.32     0.17
                       RF             0.23   0.52   0.69   0.69   0.72     0.23
            Baseline
                       ER             0.20   0.32   0.38   0.42   0.45     0.20
Apache                 CHREV          0.03   0.31   0.45   0.54   0.57     0.03
Hbase
            KU         KUREC          0.26   0.49   0.59   0.66   0.72     0.26
                       AD_FREQ        0.23   0.52   0.68   0.68   0.72     0.23
            Combined   AD_REC         0.24   0.51   0.66   0.67   0.70     0.24
                       AD_HYBRID      0.24   0.52   0.65   0.66   0.70     0.24
                       CF             0.05   0.08   0.12   0.17   0.19     0.05
                       RF             0.14   0.25   0.38   0.45   0.48     0.14
            Baseline
                       ER             0.20   0.30   0.36   0.41   0.44     0.20
Apache                 CHREV          0.24   0.36   0.42   0.45   0.49     0.24
Hive
            KU         KUREC          0.24   0.36   0.44   0.52   0.59     0.22
                       AD_FREQ        0.22   0.33   0.42   0.49   0.55     0.22
            Combined   AD_REC         0.23   0.33   0.41   0.49   0.55     0.23
                       AD_HYBRID      0.23   0.34   0.43   0.50   0.55     0.23
                       CF             0.01   0.04   0.08   0.27   0.30     0.01
                       RF             0.00   0.06   0.71   0.72   0.81     0.00
            Baseline
                       ER             0.28   0.40   0.46   0.47   0.48     0.28
Apache                 CHREV          0.51   0.63   0.71   0.76   0.80     0.51
Storm
            KU         KUREC          0.28   0.39   0.51   0.72   0.88     0.28
                       AD_FREQ        0.50   0.61   0.70   0.76   0.80     0.50
            Combined   AD_REC         0.50   0.62   0.70   0.76   0.80     0.50
                       AD_HYBRID      0.50   0.61   0.69   0.75   0.79     0.50
                       CF             0.00   0.00   0.10   0.35   0.40     0.00
                       RF             0.85   0.95   1.00   1.00   1.00     0.85
            Baseline
                       ER             0.10   0.10   0.30   0.45   0.50     0.10
Apache                 CHREV          0.45   0.90   0.90   0.90   0.90     0.45
Wicket
            KU         KUREC          0.30   0.80   0.95   1.00   1.00     0.30
                       AD_FREQ        0.85   0.90   0.95   0.95   0.95     0.85
            Combined   AD_REC         0.90   0.90   0.95   0.95   0.95     0.90
                       AD_HYBRID      0.80   0.80   0.85   0.90   0.90     0.80
                       CF             0.16   0.25   0.34   0.42   0.47     0.16
                       RF             0.03   0.12   0.17   0.23   0.29     0.03
            Baseline
                       ER             0.28   0.42   0.50   0.51   0.54     0.28
Elastic                CHREV          0.25   0.42   0.46   0.52   0.52     0.25
Search
            KU         KUREC          0.30   0.43   0.47   0.53   0.56     0.27
                       AD_FREQ        0.28   0.42   0.50   0.56   0.59     0.28
            Combined   AD_REC         0.27   0.42   0.51   0.57   0.60     0.27
                       AD_HYBRID      0.27   0.42   0.51   0.56   0.60     0.27

                       CF             0.11   0.15   0.19   0.32   0.36     0.11
                       RF             0.38   0.64   0.76   0.85   0.88     0.38
            Baseline
                       ER             0.24   0.36   0.42   0.46   0.49     0.24
                       CHREV          0.29   0.39   0.46   0.53   0.56     0.29
Median
            KU         KUREC          0.29   0.59   0.69   0.76   0.84     0.29
                       AD_FREQ        0.46   0.64   0.74   0.78   0.83     0.46
            Combined   AD_REC         0.46   0.61   0.68   0.71   0.75     0.46
                       AD_HYBRID      0.43   0.63   0.70   0.73   0.77     0.43
Using KUs of PLs to Recommend Reviewers for PRs: An Empirical Study              25


Table 3 The mean average precision (MAP) values of the studied recommenders.

             Type of    Recomme-       Mean Average Precision (MAP)       Min
  Project
            Recomm-     nder Name                                         MAP
              ender                    k=1    k=2    k=3    k=4    k=5
                        CF             0.00   0.00   0.00   0.01   0.01   0.00
                        RF             0.75   0.75   0.76   0.75   0.76   0.75
            Baseline
                        ER             0.20   0.23   0.23   0.23   0.23   0.20
Apache                  CHREV          0.00   0.15   0.15   0.15   0.16   0.00
ActiveMQ
            KU          KUREC          0.40   0.60   0.60   0.60   0.69   0.40
                        AD_FREQ        0.70   0.73   0.73   0.72   0.72   0.70
            Combined    AD_REC         0.60   0.60   0.61   0.60   0.61   0.60
                        AD_HYBRID      0.65   0.65   0.66   0.65   0.66   0.65
                        CF             0.46   0.60   0.63   0.61   0.61   0.46
                        RF             0.54   0.73   0.73   0.72   0.72   0.54
            Baseline
                        ER             0.46   0.54   0.56   0.55   0.55   0.46
Apache                  CHREV          0.38   0.40   0.41   0.41   0.41   0.38
Groovy
            KU          KUREC          0.56   0.65   0.65   0.67   0.67   0.56
                        AD_FREQ        0.46   0.60   0.61   0.63   0.63   0.46
            Combined    AD_REC         0.46   0.58   0.60   0.61   0.61   0.46
                        AD_HYBRID      0.38   0.54   0.57   0.59   0.59   0.38
                        CF             0.33   0.44   0.47   0.48   0.49   0.33
                        RF             0.53   0.67   0.66   0.66   0.65   0.53
            Baseline
                        ER             0.42   0.44   0.44   0.45   0.46   0.42
Apache                  CHREV          0.33   0.34   0.35   0.35   0.35   0.33
Lucene
            KU          KUREC          0.54   0.60   0.63   0.65   0.67   0.54
                        AD_FREQ        0.47   0.57   0.59   0.61   0.62   0.47
            Combined    AD_REC         0.47   0.57   0.61   0.62   0.62   0.47
                        AD_HYBRID      0.49   0.58   0.60   0.62   0.63   0.49
                        CF             0.17   0.19   0.20   0.21   0.22   0.17
                        RF             0.23   0.38   0.43   0.43   0.44   0.23
            Baseline
                        ER             0.20   0.26   0.28   0.29   0.30   0.20
Apache                  CHREV          0.03   0.17   0.22   0.24   0.25   0.03
Hbase
            KU          KUREC          0.26   0.37   0.41   0.42   0.42   0.26
                        AD_FREQ        0.23   0.38   0.43   0.43   0.43   0.23
            Combined    AD_REC         0.24   0.38   0.42   0.42   0.43   0.24
                        AD_HYBRID      0.24   0.38   0.42   0.42   0.43   0.24
                        CF             0.05   0.07   0.08   0.09   0.09   0.05
                        RF             0.14   0.20   0.24   0.26   0.26   0.14
            Baseline
                        ER             0.20   0.25   0.27   0.28   0.29   0.20
Apache                  CHREV          0.24   0.30   0.32   0.33   0.33   0.24
Hive
            KU          KUREC          0.22   0.28   0.31   0.33   0.34   0.22
                        AD_FREQ        0.22   0.28   0.30   0.32   0.33   0.22
            Combined    AD_REC         0.23   0.28   0.31   0.33   0.33   0.23
                        AD_HYBRID      0.23   0.29   0.31   0.33   0.33   0.23
                        CF             0.01   0.03   0.04   0.09   0.09   0.01
                        RF             0.00   0.03   0.25   0.32   0.34   0.00
            Baseline
                        ER             0.28   0.34   0.36   0.35   0.35   0.28
Apache                  CHREV          0.51   0.57   0.59   0.59   0.59   0.51
Storm
            KU          KUREC          0.28   0.33   0.37   0.42   0.44   0.28
                        AD_FREQ        0.50   0.56   0.58   0.58   0.58   0.50
            Combined    AD_REC         0.50   0.56   0.58   0.58   0.58   0.50
                        AD_HYBRID      0.50   0.56   0.58   0.58   0.58   0.50
                        CF             0.00   0.00   0.03   0.10   0.11   0.00
                        RF             0.85   0.90   0.89   0.89   0.87   0.85
            Baseline
                        ER             0.10   0.10   0.17   0.20   0.21   0.10
Apache                  CHREV          0.45   0.68   0.66   0.66   0.66   0.45
Wicket
            KU          KUREC          0.30   0.55   0.61   0.63   0.63   0.30
                        AD_FREQ        0.85   0.88   0.87   0.87   0.85   0.85
            Combined    AD_REC         0.90   0.90   0.89   0.89   0.87   0.87
                        AD_HYBRID      0.80   0.80   0.79   0.80   0.79   0.79
                        CF             0.16   0.21   0.23   0.25   0.26   0.16
                        RF             0.03   0.07   0.09   0.10   0.11   0.03
            Baseline
                        ER             0.28   0.31   0.32   0.38   0.39   0.28
Elastic                 CHREV          0.25   0.30   0.32   0.32   0.33   0.25
Search
            KU          KUREC          0.30   0.34   0.36   0.38   0.43   0.30
                        AD_FREQ        0.28   0.35   0.37   0.38   0.42   0.28
            Combined    AD_REC         0.27   0.35   0.37   0.38   0.38   0.27
                        AD_HYBRID      0.27   0.34   0.37   0.38   0.38   0.27

                        CF             0.11   0.13   0.14   0.15   0.16   0.11
                        RF             0.38   0.52   0.53   0.53   0.53   0.37
            Baseline
                        ER             0.24   0.30   0.32   0.32   0.32   0.24
                        CHREV          0.29   0.34   0.36   0.36   0.37   0.29
Median
            KU          KUREC          0.29   0.46   0.50   0.51   0.51   0.29
                        AD_FREQ        0.46   0.56   0.58   0.60   0.60   0.46
            Combined    AD_REC         0.46   0.56   0.59   0.59   0.59   0.46
                        AD_HYBRID      0.43   0.55   0.57   0.58   0.58   0.43
26                                                       Md Ahasanuzzaman et al.


RF performs the worst when many reviewers perform the reviews in a large
project) that results in bad recommendations. Therefore, in this section, we
want to see if straightforward combinations of the KUREC with the baseline
recommenders result in a better performing recommender.
Approach. To construct a combined recommender by leveraging the recom-
mendations of different recommenders, we are motivated by the work of Malik
and Hassan [36]. In this work, the authors propose adaptive meta heuristics
that combine various previously researched heuristics and improve the perfor-
mance of change propagation task (i.e., changes required to other entities of the
software recommender to avoid bugs). We follow the same approach of Malik
and Hassan [36]. In this approach, all the recommenders uses a Best Recom-
mender System Table (BRST) to track the best-performing recommender.
    We briefly explain each of the steps that we follow in this approach. First,
all the studied recommenders are trained with the training dataset. Then, a
recommender is randomly selected to predict the reviewers of the first PR
from the test data. Next, for testing each of the remaining PRs of the test
dataset, we select a recommender from the BRST. Once a PR is completed for
recommendation, we identify the best-performing recommender and update
the BRST. To identify the best-performing recommender for a given PR, we
generate a score for each of the studied recommenders by combining both
accuracy and MAP. We run every recommender for all previous PRs from our
test dataset and calculate the top-k accuracy and MAP. Then, we calculate the
average of the accuracy and the average of the MAP for all k recommendations.
Next, we average the accuracy and the MAP, and generate a single score
for each of the studied recommenders to rank them. We identify the best-
performing recommender that has the highest score. Finally, we need to update
the BRST when a PR is completed for recommendation. We implement the
following three techniques to update the BRST:
1) Adaptive Frequency Technique (AD_FREQ). In this technique, the
BRST is a frequency table that stores the count of how many times each rec-
ommender becomes the best-performing recommender among all the previous
PRs of the test dataset. To update the BRST for a given PR, we increment
the count by one to the best-performing recommender. In order to recommend
reviewers for a new PR, we select the recommender that has the highest count
in the BRST.
2) Adaptive Recency Technique (AD_REC). In this technique, the
BRST only stores the best-performing recommender that is identified in the
last PR. To update the BRST for a given PR, we replace the currently stored
recommender to the identified best-performing recommender for the given PR.
In order to recommend reviewers for a new PR, we select the recommender
that is stored in the BRST.
3) Adaptive Hybrid Technique (AD_HYBRID). This technique lever-
ages both the frequency and recency techniques. In this technique, the BRST is
a frequency table that stores the count of how many times each recommender
becomes the best-performing recommender among the last 10 previous PRs of
Using KUs of PLs to Recommend Reviewers for PRs: An Empirical Study                 27


the test dataset. We increment the count by one to the best-performing rec-
ommender for the given PR and update the BRST. To recommend reviewers
for a new PR, we select the recommender that has the highest count in the
BRST among the last 10 previous PRs.

Findings. Observation 5) All the combined recommenders outper-
form individual recommenders. We observe that all three combined rec-
ommenders perform the same from an effect size perspective, ranking first in
both top-k accuracy (Figure 7) and MAP (Figure 8). For top-k accuracy, the
RF, the KUREC and the combined recommenders are all tied (i.e., they all
rank first). However, similar to the KUREC, the interquartile range of the
combined recommenders is smaller than that of the RF (see Figure 7). Such a
result indicates that the combined recommenders are more stable than the RF.
For MAP, the performance of the combined recommenders is even better. As
we observe from Figure 8, the combined recommenders are the only ranked first
recommenders outperforming all individual recommenders. The median MAP
of the combined recommenders are higher than all baseline recommenders
including the RF and the KUREC (see also the last row of Table 3). For ex-
ample, the AD_FREQ has a 9% improvement at top-1 recommendation and
7% improvement top-5 recommendation from the highest performing baseline
recommender (i.e., the RF recommender). In addition, the interquartile range
of all three combined recommenders is smaller than the RF and is similar to
the KUREC. As we observe from the last column of Table 3, the minimum
MAP of the combined recommenders never goes below 0.22 (whereas the min-
imum MAP of the RF reaches 0.0). These results indicate that combining the
KUREC with baseline recommenders in a straightforward manner outperform
individual recommenders.
 Summary

  RQ2: Can KUREC be made more accurate by combining it with existing
  recommenders?

  Yes. Combining the KU-based recommender (KUREC) with the baselines in a straight-
  forward manner results in better performing recommenders. In particular,
  • All the combined recommenders ranked first among all individual recommenders in
  terms of both top-k accuracy and MAP.
  • The combined recommenders outperform all individual recommenders in terms of
  MAP.
  • The performance of all combined recommenders is more stable than that of the top-
  performing baseline recommender (RF)




5.3 RQ3: How reasonable are the recommendations made by KUREC?

Motivation. To measure the performance of KUREC and the other base-
line recommenders, we needed a ground truth. To build our ground truth,
28                                                       Md Ahasanuzzaman et al.


we examined the review history of a project. We considered a recommenda-
tion to be correct when such a recommendation matched the individual who
actually reviewed that PR. This is a standard practice in the code review
literature [27, 62, 71, 78]. However, as we observe in RQ1, there are certain
projects in which few developers review most of the PRs (c.f., top-5 accura-
cy/MAP of RF). We thus wonder whether the recommendations issued by our
studied recommenders would have been reasonable choices in practice when
those differ from what happened in reality. Investigating this hypothesis sheds
light into whether KUREC’s recommendations would be a valid alternative to
recommending the same developers over and over (e.g., to rebalance review
effort across the team).

Approach. We consider a recommendation to be reasonable if the recom-
mended individual had recent development experience with the majority of the
files included in the PR in question. That is, if someone recently contributed
changes to the majority of the files in a PR, we assume that that person is
likely knowledgeable about those files and would thus be a reasonable reviewer
for that PR. More specifically, our approach works as follows.
     First, we pick a recommender R. Next, we select the PRs from the test
dataset where R’s top-1 recommendation D does not match the ground truth
(the actual reviewer). Let P be one of those PRs. For each P, we collect all
files from commits and PRs that were submitted by D in the six months
preceding the submission of P. Let F be this collection of files. Finally, if at
least 50% of the changed files in P are included in F, then we consider D to
be a reasonable recommendation. We choose six months as a time frame to
ensure that the reviewer has very recent expertise with the files included in
the PR in question. We report the percentage of reasonable recommendations
for KUREC and all the other studied recommenders (i.e., KUREC’s variations
and baseline recommenders).

Findings. Observation 6) KUREC is the recommender with the
highest percentage of reasonable recommendations (63.4%). The per-
centage of reasonable recommendations per recommender (for PRs in which
the top-1 recommendation does not match the ground truth) is as follows:
KUREC: 63.4%, ER: 60.9%, AD_FREQ: 59.4%, AD_HYBRID: 54.3%, AD_REC:
54.2%, CHREV: 32.7%, CF: 25.4%, and RF: 15.2%. Interestingly, both ER
and the combined recommender also have a high percentage of reasonable rec-
ommendations. However, the combined recommenders are considerably more
aligned to the ground truth compared to ER (c.f., Figure 7 and 8). The
AD_FREQ combined recommender, in particular, strikes the best balance
between sticking to the ground truth (best recommender from RQ2) and issu-
ing reasonable recommendations when those deviate from that ground truth
(third best recommender in this RQ). Overall, the aforementioned results pro-
vide positive empirical evidence to support the idea that either AD_FREQ
or KUREC’s recommendations could be a valid alternative to recommending
the same developers over and over. However, more in-depth studies would still
Using KUs of PLs to Recommend Reviewers for PRs: An Empirical Study                   29


be necessary to determine how acceptable those recommendations would be
in practice.
    To conclude this RQ, we make a final observation. One might notice that
the very approach of this RQ could have been converted into a new recom-
mender that would likely outperform all of our studied ones (including KUREC
and AD_FREQ) in terms of the ratio of reasonable recommendations. How-
ever, we clarify that such a recommender would have limited applicability in
practice because it would operate exclusively on contribution recency. In other
words, it would only recommend the same individuals over and over. Such
a characteristic is undesirable, since (i) it does not promote knowledge and
expertise sharing (e.g., it aggravates the consequences of developer turnover
[39]) and (ii) it prevents adequate review workload distribution. Modern rec-
ommenders, such as KUREC and CHREV account for other factors in addition
to recency. For instance, KUREC considers KU-based development expertise
when recommending reviewers. As a consequence, KUREC is able to recom-
mend an individual even if that individual has never performed a code review
before.
 Summary

  RQ3: How reasonable are the recommendations made by KUREC?


  KUREC is the recommender with the highest percentage of reasonable recommenda-
  tions (63.4%). Yet, AD_FREQ strikes the best balance between sticking to the ground
  truth (c.f., RQ2) and issuing reasonable recommendations when those deviate from that
  ground truth (59.4% reasonable recommendations).




6 Related Work

Reviewer recommendation. Zanjani et al. [78] develop an approach, namely
cHRev, that can automatically recommend reviewers based on their histori-
cal review contributions. The cHRev first extracts each source code file and
generates a reviewer’s expertise factor based on their historical contributions.
Then the cHRev recommends reviewers based on the score of the cumulative
expertise factors. The authors evaluate the performance of cHRev on three
open-source systems and a commercial codebase at Microsoft. The results show
that cHRev outperforms the existing state-of-the-art works for peer reviewer
recommendations.
    Yu et al. [76] investigate the effectiveness of traditional approaches to bug
triaging and code review for pull-request reviewer recommendation. The au-
thors also propose a recommendation model for reviewers of pull requests by
analyzing comment networks. The results show that the performance of tradi-
tional approaches can be improved by combining them with the information
extracted from prior social interactions (e.g., comments) between developers.
    Rahman et al. [55] propose a code reviewer recommendation tool that
recommends reviewers for a pull request by analyzing a developer’s past expe-
30                                                        Md Ahasanuzzaman et al.


rience with external software libraries and specialized technology (e.g., Google
App Engine) that are used by the pull request. The authors evaluate the tool
using 13,081 pull requests from 10 subject systems. The results show that the
performance of the tool is promising, according to relevant literature.
    Thongtanunam et al. [62] propose a reviewer recommendation approach,
namely REVFINDER, which is based on the past reviews of files with similar
names and paths. The authors evaluate their performance on a case study of
42,045 reviews of four popular projects. The results show that REVFINDER
achieves an accuracy of 79% at top 10 recommendations and the overall rank-
ing of REVFINDER is three times better than a baseline approach.
    Xia et al. [68] propose another approach for reviewer recommendation,
namely TIE. TIE is based on the intuition that the same reviewers are likely
to review code changes containing similar terms (i.e., words) and are like to
review the same files or the files in a similar location. The evaluation results
show that TIE outperforms the REVFINDER on open source systems.
    Our work is different from the above studies because we introduce KUs
and develop a recommender system using KUs that shows effectiveness in
recommending code reviewers for PRs.
Representation of developers’ expertise. Our paper is related to the work
of Dey et al. [10]. The authors propose and construct Skill Space, a methodol-
ogy to represent the expertise of developers by comparing vector representation
of four important entities (e.g., developers, projects, programming languages,
and APIs). The authors operationalize Skill Space using the World of Code
(WoC) data that contains APIs extracted from source code changes of 17 pro-
gramming languages. To represent Skill Space, the authors employ Doc2Vec
text embedding where each document represents the APIs encountered in a
single modified file, and the document tags represent the language, the project,
and the developer. The evaluation strategy involves fitting the Doc2Vec model
on past data and measuring the alignment (e.g., cosine similarity) between vec-
tors representing any pair of developers, projects, and APIs. The results show
that Skill Space representations can help identify important aspects between
developers, projects, and APIs. For instance, the authors observe that devel-
opers are closely aligned to themselves in the Skill Space when developers use
new APIs. The results also show that Skill Space affects the probability of a
developer’s pull requests being accepted.
    Our work is different from the above work. Our approach for constructing
developers’ expertise profile with KUs is considerably easy to deploy (see Fig-
ure 3 of the Section 3) whereas deep learning models (e.g., Doc2Vec) are often
difficult to deploy and interpret in practice. In addition, we build reviewer rec-
ommender with KUs (e.g., KUREC), compare the performance with baselines
and demonstrate the usefulness of our KU-based expertise representation in
recommending code reviewers for PRs.
    More generally, several studies have attempted to define metrics for mea-
suring expertise of developers using different sources of information, such as
source code changes (e.g., commits and pull requests) [19, 37, 41, 43], API us-
Using KUs of PLs to Recommend Reviewers for PRs: An Empirical Study            31


age [34, 35, 65], source code defects [3], user interaction data [14–16], commit
messages [22] and, README files [24, 67]. We briefly highlight a few of them in
the following paragraphs.
    Moradi Dakhel et al. [43] use the changes in syntax patterns of source
code as a proxy for measuring programming expertise. The authors propose a
model that relies on the Zipf distribution of syntactic patterns in artifacts that
are produced by a developer to evaluate developer’s mastery in programming
syntax patterns. To evaluate their model’s performance, the authors compared
the performance of the model with two groups of Clustering and Classifier
algorithms. The results show that the proposed approach outperforms the
state-of-the-art approaches for classifying novice and expert programmers.
    Liang et al. [34] present a novel method to detect OSS skills and prototype,
namely DISKO (DetectIng SKills in OSS). The approach identifies a set of
relevant signals, which are measurable activities or cues associated with four
skills: (1) teaches others to be involved in the OSS project, (2) shows commit-
ment towards the OSS project, (3) has knowledge in programming languages
and (4) has familiarity with OSS practices. The authors evaluate the approach
by surveying 455 OSS contributors. The authors observe that their approach
can detect the presence of the skills with precision scores between 77% to 97%.
    Our work is different from the above works because we define KUs that we
operationalize using certification exams. These KUs act as proxies for knowl-
edge or skill categories of programming languages. In this paper, we conduct an
exploratory study of the expertise representation with KUs. We also demon-
strate that such expertise representation with KUs can be effective for recom-
mending code reviewers in collaborative platforms (e.g., GitHub).
Knowledge Units (KUs). There have been several works on representing
knowledge using KUs [9, 33, 52–54]. The importance of the hierarchical orga-
nization of ontology for an intelligent web is presented by Patel et al. [52]. The
authors use KUs to represent the semantic web’s ontological concepts. They
show that KUs can help achieve context-sensitive inference power and acquire
new knowledge easily.
    Peták et al. [54] construct a fuzzy expert system based on fuzzy KUs which
are defined as specific and core production rules for the system. These KUs are
used to help decide whether to upgrade an enterprise resource planning system.
The results demonstrate that KUs can be useful for these expert systems’
learning process. In another study, Peták and Houška [53] demonstrate how
complicated issues can be broken down into their most basic forms using a
network of fuzzy KUs.
    Von Solms and Futcher [66] represent the important knowledge for study-
ing system engineers’ cybersecurity models into different KUs (e.g., Software,
Component and Connection, System). To ascertain which topics are deemed
to be crucial for inclusion in the module, the authors conduct interviews with
engineering professionals from academia and industry. According to the in-
terview results, the three most important areas for cybersecurity are software
security, systems security, and organizational security.
32                                                       Md Ahasanuzzaman et al.


    Cogo et al. [9] encode the Rust domain knowledge into 47 different knowl-
edge units (KUs) to study the topical alignment of the Rust documentation.
The authors extract these KUs from both the Question & Answer (Q&A)
websites and the official Rust documentation. The authors demonstrate the
usefulness of KUs to study the difference between the concrete developers’
information needs and the current state of the documentation.
    In this paper, we use KUs as a means to create “thematic groupings that
encompass multiple, related topics [7]” of the Java programming language.
More specifically, we define a programming language KU as a cohesive set of
key capabilities that are offered by one or more building blocks of a given pro-
gramming language (see Section 2). We identify Java programming language
KUs from the topics and subtopics of the Java certification exams (e.g., the
Oracle Java SE and EE certification exams).



7 Threats to Validity

Construct validity. One of the threats to construct validity is that we did
not extract KUs from the third-party libraries that are used by the studied
projects. Our objective is to understand the effectiveness of KUs in repre-
senting developer expertise. Therefore, we only focus on those KUs that are
implemented by the developers of the studied projects. To ensure that we are
less likely to miss the KUs that are implemented within the studied projects,
we carefully implemented type binding resolutions using the Java JDT library
[12].
    In this study, we use the certification exams for the Java programming lan-
guage as guidelines to identify KUs. Our rationale is that certification exams
cover important topics which are used to measure the expertise of developers
in using the programming language. The set of KUs that we conceive in this
paper are based on the core functionalities of the programming language that
are documented in the topics of these exams. Therefore, our identified KUs
could be limited and might not cover all the knowledge surrounded with the
constructs and APIs of the Java programming language. In addition, certifi-
cation exams of different programming language versions (e.g., Java SE 8 vs
Java SE 11) might cover different topics. Our paper should be seen as a first
attempt to introduce the notion of KUs and design how to operationalize these
KUs. Future research should focus on refining our conceptualization of KUs
and operationalizing them in different ways.
    We applied PCA to reduce the dimension of our KU expertise represen-
tation data before running the k-means clustering algorithm. To reduce the
dimensionality of the data, one needs to select a few PCA components. To se-
lect these PCA components, we decided to use a threshold-based approach on
the explained variance of the PCA components. We selected the first few PCA
components that aggregate up to the 95% of the data which is a reasonable
threshold for the explained variance of the data [18, 30, 70].
Using KUs of PLs to Recommend Reviewers for PRs: An Empirical Study            33


Internal validity. There could be a threat in identifying the optimal number
of clusters using KUs. Identifying an optimum number of clusters is a non-
trivial task. However, we follow the silhouette method that has been widely
used in prior works [45] for determining the optimal number of clusters. In
addition, we carefully calculate the silhouette value using the sklearn.metric
package of Python [59].
External validity. In this study, we only focus on Java projects of GitHub.
We were aware of the fact that GitHub contains projects that are not real-
world projects (e.g., academic projects and toy projects). Therefore, we care-
fully filtered our studied projects using the list of real-world software projects
curated by Munaiah et al. [44]. We encourage future studies to broaden the
scope of our study and investigate how our findings apply to software projects
written in other popular programming languages (e.g., Python) that have cer-
tification exams in different development areas (e.g., web development). For
example, popular programming languages for web development (e.g., Ruby on
Rails, JavaScript, Python, ASP.Net, Node-js, and Objective-C) have their own
certification exams [64].
     To compare the performance of our KUREC to that of the state-of-the-art
recommender, we choose the CHREV. We include CHREV in lieu of other
modern recommenders because its authors show that CHREV outperforms
other recommenders [27, 62]. However, in our results, we observe that both
KUREC and RF outperform CHREV. Hence, we suggest that future work
should replicate our study to include (i) additional recommenders such as
REVFINDER [62], TIE [68], and Sofia [39] and (ii) more subject systems
from GitHub.
     The results discussed in this paper do not necessarily generalize. We thus
encourage future research to (i) use KUs and combine them with other metrics
and (ii) evaluate whether our findings generalize to other subject systems that
differ substantially from the ones we chose.


8 Conclusion

In this paper, we introduce Knowledge Units of programming languages to
present developers’ expertise and present how KU-based expertise can be use-
ful for recommending code reviewers in PRs. We define a KU as a cohesive
set of key capabilities that are offered by one or more building blocks of a
given programming language. We operationalize our KUs via certification ex-
ams for the Java programming language. As a first paper on the topic, our
main objective is to study if KU-based expertise representation (i.e., KUREC
recommender) can help recommend code reviewers.
    Our results of the study demonstrate that KU-based expertise profiles
are useful for recommending code reviewers (RQ1). Combining KUREC with
other recommenders resulted in even better recommenders that outperform
the baselines (RQ2). And when KUREC deviates from the ground truth, we
observe that the recommendations are still frequently reasonable (RQ3). We
34                                                               Md Ahasanuzzaman et al.


thus conclude that KUREC and AD_FREQ are overall superior to the base-
line recommenders that we studied. These encouraging results can be helpful
to researchers who wish to further study developers’ skills or build reviewer
recommendation models. We thus invite researchers to (i) explore richer con-
ceptualizations and operationalizations of KUs (e.g., supporting the detection
of different design patterns), (ii) evaluate whether our findings generalize to
other projects that differ from the ones we chose, (iii) investigate the effective-
ness of KUs in solving other practical software engineering tasks that depend
on the effective identification and mapping of developers’ expertise, such as the
development of strategies for increasing the truck factor of a project [4, 13].


Data Availability Statement (DAS)

A supplementary material package is provided online in the following link:
http://www.bit.ly/3bhSFux. The contents will be made available on a public
GitHub repository once the paper is accepted.


Conflict of Interest (COI)

The authors declared that they have no conflict of interest.


References

 1. Adomavicius G, Zhang J (2014) Improving stability of recommender systems: a
    meta-algorithmic approach. IEEE Transactions on Knowledge and Data Engineering
    27(6):1573–1587
 2. Al-Subaihin AA, Sarro F, Black S, Capra L, Harman M, Jia Y, Zhang Y (2016) Clus-
    tering Mobile Apps Based on Mined Textual Features. In: Proceedings of the 10th
    ACM/IEEE International Symposium on Empirical Software Engineering and Mea-
    surement, ESEM ’16
 3. Anvik J, Murphy GC (2007) Determining Implementation Expertise from Bug Reports.
    In: Proceedings of the 4th International Workshop on Mining Software Repositories, pp
    1–8
 4. Avelino G, Passos L, Hora A, Valente MT (2016) A novel approach for estimating truck
    factors. In: Proceedings of the 24th International Conference on Program Comprehen-
    sion (ICPC), IEEE, pp 1–10
 5. Bacchelli A, Bird C (2013) Expectations, outcomes, and challenges of modern code
    review. In: Proceedings of the 2013 International Conference on Software Engineering,
    IEEE Press, ICSE ’13, p 712–721
 6. Bishnu PS, Bhattacherjee V (2012) Software Fault Prediction Using Quad Tree-Based
    K-Means Clustering Algorithm. IEEE Transactions on Knowledge and Data Engineering
    24(6):1146–1150
 7. Bishop M, Burley D, Buck S, Ekstrom JJ, Futcher L, Gibson D, Hawthorne EK, Kaza
    S, Levy Y, Mattord H, et al. (2017) Cybersecurity curricular guidelines. In: IFIP World
    Conference on Information Security Education, pp 3–13
 8. Campos PG, Díez F, Sánchez-Montañés M (2011) Towards a more realistic evaluation:
    testing the ability to predict future tastes of matrix factorization-based recommenders.
    In: Proceedings of the 5th ACM conference on Recommender systems, pp 309–312
Using KUs of PLs to Recommend Reviewers for PRs: An Empirical Study                    35


 9. Cogo FR, Xia X, Hassan AE (2022) Assessing the alignment between the information
    needs of developers and the documentation of programming languages: A case study on
    rust. arXiv preprint arXiv:220204431
10. Dey T, Karnauch A, Mockus A (2021) Representation of Developer Expertise in Open
    Source Software. In: Proceedings of the 43rd International Conference on Software En-
    gineering, p 995–1007
11. Ding C, He X (2004) K-Means Clustering via Principal Component Analysis. In: Pro-
    ceedings of the 21st international conference on Machine learning, pp 29–37
12. Eclipse (2020) Eclipse Java development tools (JDT) . http://www.eclipse.org/jdt/,
    (Last accessed: April 2023)
13. Ferreira M, Mombach T, Valente MT, Ferreira K (2019) Algorithms for estimating truck
    factors: a comparative study. Software Quality Journal 27(4):1583–1617
14. Fritz T, Murphy GC, Hill E (2007) Does a Programmer’s Activity Indicate Knowledge
    of Code? In: Proceedings of the 6th Joint Meeting of the European Software Engineer-
    ing Conference and the ACM SIGSOFT Symposium on The Foundations of Software
    Engineering, p 341–350
15. Fritz T, Ou J, Murphy GC, Murphy-Hill E (2010) A Degree-of-Knowledge Model to
    Capture Source Code Familiarity. In: Proceedings of the 32nd ACM/IEEE International
    Conference on Software Engineering, p 385–394
16. Fritz T, Murphy GC, Murphy-Hill E, Ou J, Hill E (2014) Degree-of-Knowledge: Model-
    ing a Developer’s Knowledge of Code. ACM Transactions on Software Engineering and
    Methodology 23(2)
17. Ghotra B, McIntosh S, Hassan AE (2015) Revisiting the Impact of Classification Tech-
    niques on the Performance of Defect Prediction Models. In: Proceedings of the 37th
    IEEE International Conference on Software Engineering, pp 789–800
18. Ghotra B, Mcintosh S, Hassan AE (2017) A Large-Scale Study of the Impact of Fea-
    ture Selection Techniques on Defect Classification Models. In: Porceedings of the 14th
    International Conference on Mining Software Repositories, p 146–157
19. Girba T, Kuhn A, Seeberger M, Ducasse S (2005) How developers drive software evo-
    lution. In: Proceedings of the 8th International Workshop on Principles of Software
    Evolution, pp 113–122
20. Goebl S, He X, Plant C, Böhm C (2014) Finding the optimal subspace for clustering.
    In: Proceedings of the 2014 IEEE International Conference on Data Mining, pp 130–139
21. Google (2020) k-Means Advantages and Disadvantages. https://developers.google.
    com/machine-learning/clustering/algorithm/advantages-disadvantages, (Last ac-
    cessed: April 2023)
22. Greene GJ, Fischer B (2016) Cvexplorer: Identifying candidate developers by mining
    and exploring their open source contributions. In: Proceedings of the 31st IEEE/ACM
    International Conference on Automated Software Engineering, pp 804–809
23. Hannebauer C, Patalas M, Stünkel S, Gruhn V (2016) Automatically Recommending
    Code Reviewers Based on Their Expertise: An Empirical Comparison. In: Proceedings
    of the 31st IEEE/ACM International Conference on Automated Software Engineering,
    p 99–110
24. Hauff C, Gousios G (2015) Matching GitHub developer profiles to job advertisements.
    In: 2015 IEEE/ACM 12th Working Conference on Mining Software Repositories, pp
    362–366
25. He Q, Li B, Chen F, Grundy J, Xia X, Yang Y (2020) Diversified third-party library
    prediction for mobile app development. IEEE Transactions on Software Engineering
    48(1):150–165
26. Jureczko M, Madeyski L (2010) Towards Identifying Software Project Clusters with
    Regard to Defect Prediction. In: Proceedings of the 6th International Conference on
    Predictive Models in Software Engineering, PROMISE ’10
27. Kagdi H, Hammad M, Maletic JI (2008) Who can help me with this source code change?
    In: 2008 IEEE International Conference on Software Maintenance, pp 157–166, DOI
    10.1109/ICSM.2008.4658064
28. Kalliamvakou E, Gousios G, Blincoe K, Singer L, German DM, Damian D (2014) The
    Promises and Perils of Mining GitHub. In: Proceedings of the 11th Working Conference
    on Mining Software Repositories, pp 92–101
36                                                               Md Ahasanuzzaman et al.


29. Kassambara A, Mundt F (2017) Package ‘factoextra’. Extract and visualize the results
    of multivariate data analyses 76
30. Kondo M, Bezemer CP, Kamei Y, Hassan AE, Mizuno O (2019) The impact of fea-
    ture reduction techniques on defect prediction models. Empirical Software Engineering
    24(4):1925–1963
31. Lewis C, Lin Z, Sadowski C, Zhu X, Ou R, Whitehead Jr EJ (2013) Does Bug Prediction
    Support Human Developers? Findings from a Google Case Study. In: Proceedings of
    the 35th International Conference on Software Engineering, p 372–381
32. Li T, Zhu S, Ogihara M (2003) Algorithms for Clustering High Dimensional and Dis-
    tributed Data. Intelligent Data Analysis 7(4):305–326
33. Li X, Peng S, Du J (2021) Towards medical knowmetrics: representing and computing
    medical knowledge using semantic predications as the knowledge unit and the uncer-
    tainty as the knowledge context. Scientometrics pp 1–27
34. Liang JT, Zimmermann T, Ford D (2022) Towards mining oss skills from github activity.
    In: Proceedings of the 44th International Conference on Software Engineering - New
    Ideas and Emerging Results (NIER track)
35. Ma D, Schuler D, Zimmermann T, Sillito J (2009) Expert recommendation with us-
    age expertise. In: Proceedings of the 25th IEEE International Conference on Software
    Maintenance, pp 535–538
36. Malik H, Hassan AE (2008) Supporting software evolution using adaptive change propa-
    gation heuristics. In: Proceedings of the 24th IEEE International Conference on Software
    Maintenance, pp 177–186
37. McDonald DW (2001) Evaluating expertise recommendations. In: Proceedings of the
    2001 International ACM SIGGROUP Conference on Supporting Group Work, p 214–223
38. McDonald DW, Ackerman MS (2000) Expertise Recommender: A Flexible Recommen-
    dation System and Architecture. In: Proceedings of the 2000 ACM Conference on Com-
    puter Supported Cooperative Work, p 231–240
39. Mirsaeedi E, Rigby PC (2020) Mitigating turnover with code review recommendation:
    balancing expertise, workload, and knowledge distribution. In: Proceedings of the 42nd
    International Conference on Software Engineering, pp 1183–1195
40. Mittas N, Angelis L (2013) Ranking and Clustering Software Cost Estimation Models
    through a Multiple Comparisons Algorithm. IEEE Transactions on Software Engineer-
    ing 39(4):537–551
41. Mockus A, Herbsleb JD (2002) Expertise Browser: A Quantitative Approach to Iden-
    tifying Expertise. In: Proceedings of the 24th International Conference on Software
    Engineering, p 503–512
42. Montandon JE, Silva LL, Valente MT (2019) Identifying experts in software libraries
    and frameworks among github users. In: Porceedings of the 2019 16th International
    Conference on Mining Software Repositories (MSR), pp 276–287
43. Moradi Dakhel A, C Desmarais M, Khomh F (2021) Assessing Developer Expertise from
    the Statistical Distribution of Programming Syntax Patterns. In: Proceedings of the
    25th International Conference on Evaluation and Assessment in Software Engineering,
    p 90–99
44. Munaiah N, Kroh S, Cabrey C, Nagappan M (2017) Curating GitHub for Engineered
    Software Projects. Empirical Software Engineering 22(6):3219–3253
45. Nidheesh N, Nazeer K, Ameer P (2020) A Hierarchical Clustering algorithm based on
    Silhouette Index for cancer subtype discovery from genomic data. Neural Computing
    and Applications 32(15):11459–11476
46. Oracle (2022) Oracle Certified Associate, Java SE 8 Programmer. https://education.
    oracle.com/oracle-certified-associate-java-se-8-programmer/trackp_333, (Last
    accessed: April 2023)
47. Oracle (2022) Oracle Certified Professional, Java EE 7 Application Devel-
    oper. https://education.oracle.com/oracle-certified-professional-java-ee-7-
    application-developer/pexam_1Z0-900, (Last accessed: April 2023)
48. Oracle (2022) Oracle Certified Professional, Java SE 8 Programmer. https:
    //education.oracle.com/oracle-certified-professional-java-se-8-programmer/
    trackp_357, (Last accessed: April 2023)
Using KUs of PLs to Recommend Reviewers for PRs: An Empirical Study                     37


49. Ouni A, Kula RG, Inoue K (2016) Search-based peer reviewers recommendation in
    modern code review. In: Proceedings of the 32nd IEEE International Conference on
    Software Maintenance and Evolution, pp 367–377
50. Panichella A, Dit B, Oliveto R, Di Penta M, Poshynanyk D, De Lucia A (2013) How
    to effectively use topic models for software engineering tasks? an approach based on
    genetic algorithms. In: Proceedings of the 35th International Conference on Software
    Engineering, pp 522–531
51. Parsons L, Haque E, Liu H (2004) Subspace Clustering for High Dimensional Data: A
    Review. SIGKDD Explorations Newsletter 6(1):90–105
52. Patel A, Jain S, Shandilya SK (2018) Data of semantic web as unit of knowledge. Journal
    of Web Engineering
53. Peták M, Houška M (2018) Fuzzy knowledge unit. In: Proceedings of 12th International
    Scientific Conference on Distance Learning in Applied Informatics, pp 491–502
54. Peták M, Brožová H, Houška M (2020) Modelling of Knowledge via Fuzzy Knowledge
    Unit in a Case of the ERP Systems Upgrade. Automatic Control and Computer Sciences
    54(6):529–540
55. Rahman MM, Roy CK, Redl J, Collins JA (2016) Correct: Code reviewer recommen-
    dation at github for vendasta technologies. In: Proceedings of the 31st IEEE/ACM
    International Conference on Automated Software Engineering, pp 792–797
56. Rigby PC, Bird C (2013) Convergent contemporary software peer review practices. In:
    Proceedings of the 2013 9th Joint Meeting on Foundations of Software Engineering, As-
    sociation for Computing Machinery, New York, NY, USA, ESEC/FSE 2013, p 202–212,
    DOI 10.1145/2491411.2491444
57. Robbes R, Röthlisberger D (2013) Using Developer Interaction Data to Compare Ex-
    pertise Metrics. In: Proceedings of the 10th Working Conference on Mining Software
    Repositories, p 297–300
58. Rousseeuw PJ (1987) Silhouettes: a graphical aid to the interpretation and validation
    of cluster analysis. Journal of computational and applied mathematics 20:53–65
59. Sklearn (2022) dfgdfg. https://scikit-learn.org/stable/modules/generated/
    sklearn.metrics.silhouette_samples.html, (Last accessed: April 2023)
60. Spadini D, Aniche M, Bacchelli A (2018) PyDriller: Python Framework for Mining
    Software Repositories. In: Proceedings of the 2018 26th ACM Joint Meeting on Euro-
    pean Software Engineering Conference and Symposium on the Foundations of Software
    Engineering, p 908–911
61. Tantithamthavorn C, McIntosh S, Hassan AE, Matsumoto K (2017) An Empirical Com-
    parison of Model Validation Techniques for Defect Prediction Models. IEEE Transac-
    tions on Software Engineering 43(1):1–18
62. Thongtanunam P, Tantithamthavorn C, Kula RG, Yoshida N, Iida H, Matsumoto Ki
    (2015) Who should review my code? a file location-based code-reviewer recommendation
    approach for modern code review. In: Proceedings of the 22nd International Conference
    on Software Analysis, Evolution, and Reengineering (SANER), pp 141–150
63. Tsantalis N, Chatzigeorgiou A, Stephanides G, Halkidis ST (2006) Design pattern detec-
    tion using similarity scoring. IEEE Transactions on Software Engineering 32(11):896–
    909
64. Vekariya P (2018) Top 7 Programming Language Certifications for Web Developers.
    https://medium.com/@pdvekariya1/top-7-programming-language-certifications-
    for-web-developers-a29fce9508e4, (Last accessed: April 2023)
65. Vivacqua A, Lieberman H (2000) Agents to Assist in Finding Help. In: Proceedings of
    the SIGCHI Conference on Human Factors in Computing Systems, p 65–72
66. Von Solms S, Futcher L (2018) Identifying the cybersecurity body of knowledge for a
    postgraduate module in systems engineering. In: IFIP World Conference on Information
    Security Education, pp 121–132
67. Wan Y, Chen L, Xu G, Zhao Z, Tang J, Wu J (2018) SCSMiner: mining social coding
    sites for software developer recommendation with relevance propagation. World Wide
    Web 21(6):1523–1543
68. Xia X, Lo D, Wang X, Yang X (2015) Who should review this change?: Putting text
    and file location analyses together for more accurate recommendations. In: Proceedings
    of the 31st IEEE International Conference on Software Maintenance and Evolution, pp
38                                                              Md Ahasanuzzaman et al.


    261–270
69. Xia Z, Sun H, Jiang J, Wang X, Liu X (2017) A hybrid approach to code reviewer
    recommendation with collaborative filtering. In: Proceedings of the 6th International
    Workshop on Software Mining, pp 24–31
70. Xibilia MG, Latino M, Marinković Z, Atanasković A, Donato N (2020) Soft sensors based
    on deep neural networks for applications in security and safety. IEEE Transactions on
    Instrumentation and Measurement 69(10):7869–7876
71. Xie X, Yang X, Wang B, He Q (2021) DevRec: Multi-Relationship Embedded Software
    Developer Recommendation. IEEE Transactions on Software Engineering pp 1–1
72. Xiong R, Li B (2019) Accurate design pattern detection based on idiomatic implemen-
    tation matching in java language context. In: 2019 IEEE 26th International Conference
    on Software Analysis, Evolution and Reengineering (SANER), pp 163–174
73. Yitzhaki S (1979) Relative Deprivation and the Gini Coefficient. The Quarterly Journal
    of Economics 93(2):321–324
74. Yoon KA, Kwon OS, Bae DH (2007) An approach to outlier detection of software mea-
    surement data using the k-means clustering method. In: First International Symposium
    on Empirical Software Engineering and Measurement, pp 443–445
75. Yu Y, Wang H, Yin G, Ling CX (2014) Who should review this pull-request: Reviewer
    recommendation to expedite crowd collaboration. In: Proceedings of the 21st Asia-
    Pacific Software Engineering Conference, pp 335–342
76. Yu Y, Wang H, Yin G, Wang T (2016) Reviewer recommendation for pull-requests in
    GitHub: What can we learn from code review and bug assignment? Information and
    Software Technology 74:204–218
77. Yu, Yue and Wang, Huaimin and Yin, Gang and Wang, Tao (2016) Reviewer recom-
    mendation for pull-requests in GitHub: What can we learn from code review and bug
    assignment? Information and Software Technology 74:204–218
78. Zanjani MB, Kagdi H, Bird C (2016) Automatically recommending peer reviewers in
    modern code review. IEEE Transactions on Software Engineering 42(6):530–543
79. Zhang F, Zheng Q, Zou Y, Hassan AE (2016) Cross-Project Defect Prediction Using a
    Connectivity-Based Unsupervised Classifier. In: Proceedings of the 38th International
    Conference on Software Engineering, p 309–320
Using KUs of PLs to Recommend Reviewers for PRs: An Empirical Study                                                               39


Appendix



A Java Certification Exams and Knowledge Units

A.1 Java SE 8 Programmer I Exam

Table 4 lists the topics and subtopics covered in the Java SE 8 Programmer I
Exam as per Oracle’s official webpage.


Table 4 Topics and subtopics from the Java SE 8 Programmer I Exam.
     Exam topic                                                                     Exam subtopics
 [T1] Java Basics          [S1] Define the scope of variables.
                           [S2] Define the structure of a Java class.
                           [S3] Create executable Java applications with a main method; run a Java program from the command line;
                           produce console output.
                           [S4] Import other Java packages to make them accessible in your code.
                           [S5] Compare and contrast the features and components of Java such as: platform independence, object
                           orientation, encapsulation, etc.
 [T2] Working       with   [S1] Declare and initialize variableS(including casting of primitive data types).
 Data Types                [S2] Differentiate between object reference variables and primitive variables.
                           [S3] Know how to read or write to object fields.
                           [S4] Explain an object’s lifecycle (creation, “dereference by reassignment” and garbage collection).
 [T3]   Using Oper-        [S1] Use Java operators; use parentheses to override operator precedence.
 ators and Decision        [S2] Test equality between strings and other objects using == and equals()
 Constructs                [S3] Create and use if, if-else, and ternary constructs
                           [S4] Use a switch statement
 [T4] Creating and Us-     [S1] Declare, instantiate, initialize and use a one-dimensional array
 ing Arrays                [S2] Declare, instantiate, initialize and use a multi-dimensional array
 [T5] Using Loop Con-      [S1] Create and use while loops
 structs                   [S2] Create and use for loops including the enhanced for loop
                           [S3] Create and use do-while loops
                           [S4] Use break statement
                           [S5] Use continue statement
 [T6] Working Methods      [S1] Create methods with arguments and return values, including overloaded methods.
 and Encapsulation         [S2] Apply the static keyword to methods and fields.
                           [S3] Create an overloaded method; differentiate between default and user defined constructors.
                           [S4] Apply access modifiers.
                           [S5] Apply encapsulation principles to a class.
                           [S6] Determine the effect upon object references and primitive values when they are passed into methods
                           that change the values.
 [T7] Working with In-     [S1] Describe inheritance and its benefits.
 heritance                 [S2] Develop code that makes use of polymorphism; develop code that overrides methods; differentiate
                           between the type of a reference and the type of an object.
                           [S3] Determine when casting is necessary.
                           [S4] Use super and this to access objects and constructors.
                           [S5] Use abstract classes and interfaces..
 [T8] Handling Excep-      [S1] Differentiate among checked exceptions, RuntimeException, and Error.
 tions                     [S2] Create a try-catch block and determine how exceptions alter normal program flow.
                           [S3] Describe the advantages of exception handling.
                           [S4] Create and invoke a method that throws an exception.
                           [S5] Recognize common exception classes and categorieS(such as NullPointerException, ArithmeticException,
                           ArrayIndexOutOfBoundsException, ClassCastException).

 [T9] Working with Se-     [S1] Manipulate data using the StringBuilder class and its methods
 lected classes from the   [S2] Create and manipulate strings.
 Java API                  [S3] Create and manipulate calendar data using classes from java.time.LocalDateTime, java.time.LocalDate,
                           java.time.LocalTime, java.time.format.DateTimeFormatter, java.time.Period.
                           [S4] Declare and use an ArrayList of a given type.
                           [S5] Write a simple Lambda expression that consumes a Lambda Predicate expression.
40                                                                                                              Md Ahasanuzzaman et al.


A.2 Java SE 8 Programmer II Exam

Table 5 lists the topics and subtopics covered in the Java SE 8 Programmer
II Exam as per Oracle’s official webpage.


Table 5 Topics and subtopics from the Java SE 8 Programmer II Exam.
       Exam topic                                                                   Exam subtopic

 [T10] Java Class Design        [S1] Implement encapsulation
                                [S2] Implement inheritance including visibility modifiers and composition
                                [S3] Implement polymorphism
                                [S4] Override hasCode, equals, and toString methods from Object class
                                [S5] Create and use singleton classes and immutable classes.
                                [S6] Develop code that uses the static keyword on initialize blocks, variables, methods, and classes.

 [T11] Advanced Class De-       [S1] Develop code that uses abstract classes and methods.
 sign Knowledge Unit            [S2] Develop code that uses the final.
                                [S3] Create inner classes including static inner classes, local classes, nested classes, and anonymous innter
                                classes.
                                [S4] Use enumerated types including methods, and constructors in an enum type
                                [S5] Develop code that declares, implements and/or extends interfaces and use the @Override annotation.
                                [S6] Create and use lambda expressions.

 [T12] Generics and Col-        [S1] Create and use a generic class.
 lection Knowledge Unit         [S2] Create and use ArrayList, TreeSet, TreeMap, and ArrayDeque objects.
                                [S3] Use java.util.Comparator and java.lang.Comparable interfaces.
                                [S4] Collections, streams, and filters
                                [S5] Iterate using forEach methods of Streams and List.
                                [S6] Describe the Stream interface and the Stream pipeline.
                                [S7] Filter a collection by using lambda expressions.
                                [S8] Use method references with streams.

 [T13] Lambda Built-in          [S1] Use the built-in interfaces included in the java.util.function package such as Predicate, Consumer, Function,
 Functional Interfaces          and Supplier.
                                [S2] Develop code that uses primitive versions of functional interfaces.
                                [S3] Develop code that uses binary versions of functional interfaces.
                                [S4] Develop code that uses the UnaryOperator interface.

 [T14] Java Stream API          [S1] Develop code to extract data from an object using peek() and map() methods including primitive versions
                                of the map() method
                                [S2] Search for data by using search methods of the Stream classes including findFirst, findAny, anyMatch, allMatch,
                                noneMatch
                                [S3] Develop code that uses the Optional class
                                [S4] Develop code that uses Stream data methods and calculation methods
                                [S5] Sort a collection using Stream API
                                [S6] Save results to a collection using the collect method and group/partition data using the Collectors
                                class
                                [S7] Use flatMap() methods in the Stream API.

 [T15] Exceptions and As-       [S1] Use try-catch and throws statements
 sertions                       [S2] Use catch, multi-catch, and finally clauses
                                [S3] Use autoclose resources with a try-with-resources statement
                                [S4] Create custom exceptions and autocloseable resources
                                [S5] Test invariants by using assertions

 [T16] Use Java        SE   8   [S1] Create and manage date-based and time-based events including a combination of date and time into
 Data/Time API                  a single object using LocalDate, LocalTime, LocalDateTime, Instant, Period, and Duration
                                [S2] Work with dates and times across timezones and manage changes resulting from daylight savings
                                including Format date and times values.
                                [S3] Define and create and manage date-based and time-based events using Instant, Period, Duration, and
                                TemporalUnit

 [T17] Java I/O Funda-          [S1] Read and write data using the console.
 mentals                        [S2] Use BufferedReader, BufferedWriter, File, FileReader, FileWriter, FileInputStream, FileOutputStream, ObjectOutputStream,
                                ObjectInputStream, and PrintWriter in the java.io package

 [T18]   Java   File    I/O     [S1] Use the Path interface to operate on file and directory paths
 (NIO.2)                        [S2] Use the Files class to check, read, delete, copy, move, and manage metadata a file or directory
                                [S3] Use Stream API with NIO.2

 [T19]     Object-Oriented      [S1] Write code that declares, implements and/or extends interfaces.
 Design Principles              [S2] Choose between interface inheritance and class inheritance
                                [S3] Develop code that implements “is-a” and/or “has-a” relationships.
                                [S4] Apply object composition principles.
                                [S5] Design a class using the Singleton design pattern.
                                [S6] Write code to implement the DAO pattern.
                                [S7] Design and create objects using a factory, and use factories from the API.

 [T20] String Processing        [S1] Search, parse and build strings
                                [S2] Search, parse, and replace strings by using regular expressions.
                                [S3] Use string formatting

 [T21] Concurrency              [S1] Create worker threads using Runnable, Callable and use an ExecutorService to concurrently execute tasks
                                [S2] Identify potential threading problems among deadlock, starvation, livelock, and race conditions.
                                [S3] Use synchronized keyword and java.util.concurrent.atomic package to control the order of thread execution.
                                [S4] Use java.util.concurrent collections and classes including CyclicBarrier and CopyOnWriteArrayList.
                                [S5] Use parallel Fork/Join Framework

 [T22] Building Database        [S1] Describe the interfaces that make up the core of the JDBC API including the Driver, Connection, Statement,
 Applications with JDBC         and ResultSet interfaces and their relationship to provider implementations.
                                [S2] Identify the components required to connect to a database using the DriverManager class including the
                                JDBC URL.
                                [S3] Submit queries and read results from the database including creating statements, returning result sets,
                                iterating through the results, and properly closing result sets, statements, and connections.

 [T23] Localization             [S1] Read and set the locale by using the Locale object.
                                [S2] Create and read a Properties file.
                                [S3] Build a resource bundle for each locale and load a resource bundle in an application.
Using KUs of PLs to Recommend Reviewers for PRs: An Empirical Study                                                                 41


Table 6 Topics and subtopics from the Java EE Developer Exam.
       Exam topic                                                       Exam subtopic

 [T24] Understanding Java    [S1] Describe Java EE 7 standards, containers, APIs, and services
 EE Architecture             [S2] Differentiate between application component functionalities
                             [S3] Demonstrate understanding of Enterprise JavaBeans and CDI beans, their lifecycle and memory scopes
                             [S4] Demonstrate understanding of the relationship between bean components, annotations, injections, and
                             JNDI
                             [S5] Create and use singleton classes and immutable classes
                             [S6] Develop code that uses the static keyword on initialize blocks, variables, and methods

 [T25] Manage Persistence    [S1] Create JPA Entity and Object-Relational Mappings (ORM)
 using JPA Entities and      [S2] Use Entity Manager to perform database operations, transactions, and locking with JPA entities
 BeanValidation              [S3] Create and execute JPQL statements

 [T26] Implement Business    [S1] Create session EJB components containing synchronous and asynchronous business methods, manage
 Logic by Using EJBs         the life cycle container callbacks, and use interceptors
                             [S2] Create EJB timers
                             [S3] Demonstrate understanding of how to control EJB transactions, distinguish Container Managed
                             (CMT) and Bean Managed (BMT) transactions

 [T27] Use Java Message      [S1] Implement Java EE message producers and consumers, including Message-Driven beans
 Service API                 [S2] Use transactions with JMS API

 [T28] Implement SOAP        [S1] Create SOAP Web Services and Clients using JAX-WS API
 Services by Using JAX-WS    [S2] Create marshall and unmarshall Java Objects by using JAXB API
 and JAXB API

 [T29]      Create    Java   [S1] Create Java Servlet and use HTTP methods
 Web     Applications  us-   [S2] Handle HTTP headers, parameters, cookies
 ing Servlets                [S3] Manage servlet life cycle with container callback methods and WebFilters

 [T30] Create Java Web       [S1] Describe JSP life cycle
 Applications using JSPs     [S2] Use JSP syntax, use tag libraries and Expression Language (EL)
                             [S3] Handle errors using Java Server Pages

 [T31] Implement REST        [S1] Apply REST service conventions
 Services using JAX-RS       [S2] Create REST Services and clients using JAX-RS API
 API

 [T32] Create Java Appli-    [S1] Understand and utilise WebSockets communication style and lifecycle
 cations using WebSockets    [S2] Create WebSocket Server and Client Endpoint Handlers
                             [S3] Produce and consume, encode and decode WebSocket messages

 [T33] Develop Web Appli-    [S1] Describe JSF architecture, lifecycle and navigation
 cations using JSFs          [S2] Use JSF syntax and use JSF Tag Libraries
                             [S3] Handle localisation and produce messages
                             [S4] Use Expression Language (EL) and interact with CDI beans

 [T34] Secure Java EE 7      [S1] Describe Java EE declarative and programmatic security and configure authentication using applica-
 Applications                tion roles and security constraints and Login Modules
                             [S2] Describe WebServices security standards

 [T35] Use CDI Beans         [S1] Create CDI Bean Qualifiers, Producers, Disposers, Interceptors, Events, and Stereotypes

 [T36] Use Concurrency       [S1] Demonstrate understanding of Java Concurrency Utilities and use Managed Executors
 API in Java EE 7 Applica-
 tions

 [T37] Use Batch API in      [S1] Implement batch jobs using JSR 352 API
 Java EE 7 Applications




A.3 Mapping Process From Certification Exams to Knowledge Units (KUs)

We detail our process for mapping from certification exams to KUs. To map
from certification exams to KUs, we follow three steps. First, we exclude
subtopics (from either exam) that are unsuitable for our study. Next, we re-
arrange subtopics (within exams and across exams) such that subtopics lie in
the most specific topic possible. Finally, we convert each topic into a KU (one-
to-one mapping) and interpret its subtopics as the key capabilities of the KU.
Table 4 and Table 5 show the topics and subtopics of the Java SE 8 certifica-
tion exam I (E1) and the Java SE 8 certification exam II (E2), respectively. In
the following, we explain the mapping process in detail (we use the notation
[Ei, Tj, Sk] to refer to a subtopic Sk from topic Tj of exam Ei).
Exclusion of subtopics. We only considered the subtopics that can be auto-
matically detected from the source code using static analysis. For instance, the
subtopic “Use autoclose resources with a try-with-resources statement” can be
detected by searching for “try-with-resources” code blocks using an appropri-
42                                                        Md Ahasanuzzaman et al.


ate Java parser. Our rationale is to ensure that KUs are computable for any
Java system, irrespective of how those are built or used by end-users. In this
vein, subtopics that are inherently conceptual or that pose great challenges to
be detected in practice (e.g., involve problems that are still under investigation
by the SE research community) are excluded from our operationalization. We
discuss all individual cases below.
    The subtopic [E1, T1, S5] under “[E1, T1] Java Basics” is about comparing
and contrasting the features and components of Java, such as: platform inde-
pendence, object orientation, encapsulation, etc. This topic is thus more of a
concept, which can not be operationalized and extracted automatically. After
discussion, the first two authors concluded that none of the subtopics of “[E1,
T1] Java Basics” can be extracted automatically (e.g., [E1, T1, S5] comparing
and contrasting the features and components of Java such as: platform inde-
pendence, object orientation, encapsulation, etc). As a consequence, we did
not include “[E1, T1] Java Basics” in our study.
    Some of the subtopics of topics are about the understanding of a concept
which can not be operationalized and extracted automatically. For example,
the subtopic “[E1, T7, S1] Describe inheritance and its benefits” is about un-
derstanding the concept of inheritance. The subtopic “[E1, T8, S3] Describe
the advantages of exception handling” is about understanding the concept of
exception handling. The authors did not include such cases of subtopics as
capabilities of KUs. We highlight all these cases in Table 7.
    The authors decided not to include the topic “[E2, T19] Object-Oriented
Design Principles” in our study. The topic “[E2, T19] Object-Oriented Design
Principles” is about the implementation and detection of different design pat-
terns (e.g., singleton design pattern and factory design pattern). Detection of
such design patterns is a non-trivial task and is itself an active research area
in the software engineering community [63, 72]. Hence, the authors did not
include the topic “[E2, T19] Object-Oriented Design Principles” in this study.
    The authors did not include the topic “[E3, T30] Create Java Web Ap-
plication using JSPs”. To create Java web application using JSPs, developers
need to create a JSP server pages (e.g., files with “.jsp” extension) containing
the JSP tags which are different from Java files. In this study, we only focus
on studying the Java files (e.g., files with “.java” extension). Therefore, the
authors decided not to include the topic “[E3, T30]” in this study.
Rearrangement of subtopics. Certain subtopics from exam E1 are concep-
tually related to topics of exam E2 and vice-versa. In those cases, we prioritize
the topic that is more specific and move the subtopic in question to that topic.
For example, “[E2, T10] Java Class Design” contains the subtopic “[E2, T10, S2]
Implement inheritance including visibility modifiers and composition”. How-
ever, such a subtopic would also fit under “[E1, T7] Working with Inheritance.”
Since the latter topic is more specific than the former, we move [E2, T10, S2]
into [E1, T7]. We also observed rare cases in which it made sense to perform
subtopic moving within an exam (as opposed to cross exams). In the following,
we describe all subtopic rearrangements in detail.
Using KUs of PLs to Recommend Reviewers for PRs: An Empirical Study            43


  The subtopics of “[E1, T9] Working with selected classes from the Java
API” were moved into several topics of E2:
(1) The subtopics “[E1, T9, S1] Manipulate data using the StringBuilder class
    and its methods” and “[E1, T9, S2] Create and manipulate strings” were
    moved into “[E2, T10] String Processing”.
(2) The subtopic “[E1, T9, S3] Create and manipulate calendar data using
    classes from java.time.LocalDateTime, java.time.LocalDate,java.time.LocalTime,
    java.time.format.DateTimeFormatter, java.time.Period.” was moved into
    “[E2, T16] Use Java SE 8 Date/Time API”.
(3) The subtopic “[E1, T9, S4] Declare and use an ArrayList of a given type”
    was moved into “[E2, T12] Generics and Collection”.
(4) The subtopic “[E1, T9, S5] Write a simple Lambda expression that con-
    sumes a Lambda Predicate expression” was moved into “[E2, T13] Lambda
    Built-in Functional Interfaces”.
    The subtopics “[E1, T8, S2] Create a try-catch block” and “[E1, T8, S4] Cre-
ate and invoke a method that throws an exception” were moved from “[E1.T8]
Handling Exception” into “[E2.T15] Exceptions and Assertions”.
    All subtopics from the topic “[E2, T10] Java Class Design” were moved into
other topics of E1 and E2 as follows:
(1) The subtopics “[E2, T10, S1] Implement encapsulation”, “[E2, T10, S4]
    Override hasCode, equals, and toString methods from Object class”, and
    “[E2, T10, S6] Develop code that uses the static keyword on initialize blocks,
    variables, and methods” were moved into “[E1, T6] Working with Methods
    and Encapsulation”.
(2) The subtopics “[E2, T10, S2] Implement inheritance including visibility
    modifiers and composition” and “[E2, T10, S3] Implement polymorphism”
    were moved into “[E1, T7] Working with Inheritance”.
(3) The subtopic “[E2, T10, S5] Create and use singleton classes and immutable
    classes” was moved into “[E2, T11] Advanced Class Design”.
    Three subtopics of the topic “[E2, T12] Generics and Collection KU” were
    moved into “[E2, T14] Java Stream API”. The subtopics (1) “[E2, T12, S5]
    Iterate Collection using forEach methods of Streams”, (2) “[E2, T12, S7]
    Filter a collection by using Stream filter API with lambda expressions”,
    and (3) “[E2, T12, S8] Use method references with streams” were moved
    into “[E2, T14] Java Stream API”.
One-to-one mappings. After performing the exclusions and subtopic rear-
rangements, we created a one-to-one mapping between topics and KUs. For
example, the topic “[E1, T5] Using Loop Constructs” is mapped to the “[K4]
Loop KU”. All of the subtopics in [E1, T5] are interpreted as key capabilities
associated with [K4]. For instance, the subtopic “[E1, T5, S1] Create and use
while loops” is considered a key capability associated with the Loop KU. As a
result of our mapping process, we identified 28 KUs, which are shown in Table
7.
44                                                                                                                 Md Ahasanuzzaman et al.


Table 7 The mapping from certification exams to Knowledge Unit (KUs)
                                                                                                               Knowledge Unit
     Exam              Topic                              Subtopic                       Mapping Action                                      Reason
                                                                                                                   (KU)
 [E1] Java       [T1] Java Basics    [S1] Define the scope of variables                      Excluded                 –           [E1, T1] is basically about the
 SE 8                                [S2] Define the structure of a Java class                                                    understanding of the concept
 Programmer                          [S3] Understand executable Java applications                                                 of the Java programming
 I                                   with the main method                                                                         language and knowledge
 certification                       [S4] Understand the process of importing                                                     about how to run a Java
 exam                                packages to make them accessible in your code                                                program. None of the
                                     [S5] Compare and contrast the features and                                                   subtopics of [E1, T1] can be
                                     components of Java such as platform                                                          operationalized and extracted
                                     independence, object orientation, encapsulation,                                             automatically. So, [E1, T1] is
                                     etc.                                                                                         excluded from this study.
                 [T2] Working with   [S1] Declare and initialize variableS(including      Mapped to KU          [K1] Data Type    One to one mapping.
                 Data Types          casting of primitive data types)                                                 KU
                                     [S2] Differentiate between object reference             Excluded                 –           These subtopics of topics are
                                     variables and primitive variables                                                            about the understanding of a
                                     [S3] Know how to read or write to object fields                                              concept which can not be
                                     [S4] Explain an object’s lifecycle (creation,                                                operationalized and extracted
                                     “dereference by reassignment” and garbage                                                    automatically.
                                     collection)
                 [T3] Using          [S1] Use Java operators; use parentheses to          Mapped to KU          [K2] Operator     One to one mapping.
                 Operators and       override operator precedence                                               and Decision
                 Decision            [S2] Test equality between strings and other                               KU
                 Constructs          objects using “=” and “equals( )”.
                                     [S3] Create and use if, if-else, and ternary
                                     constructs
                                     [S4] Use a switch statement
                 [T4] Creating and   [S1] Declare, instantiate, initialize and use a      Mapped to KU          [K3] Array KU     One to one mapping.
                 Using Arrays        one-dimensional array
                                     [S2] Declare, instantiate, initialize and use a
                                     multi-dimensional array
                 [T5] Using Loop     [S1] Create and use "while" loops.                   Mapped to KU          [K4] Loop KU      One to one mapping.
                 Constructs          [S2] Create and use for loops, including the
                                     "enhanced for" loop
                                     [S3] Create and use do-while loops
                                     [S4] Use break statement
                                     [S5] Use continue statement
                                     [S1] Create methods with arguments and return        Mapped to KU          [K5] Method       One to one mapping.
                 [T6] Working with
                                     values, including overloaded methods                                       and
                 Methods and
                                     [S2] Apply the static keyword to methods and                               Encapsulation
                 Encapsulation
                                     fields                                                                     KU
                                     [S3] Create an overloaded method; create default
                                     and user-defined constructors
                                     [S3] Create an overloaded method; create default
                                     and user-defined constructors
                                     [S5] Apply encapsulation principles to a class
                                     [S6] Determine the effect upon object references        Excluded                 –           This subtopic [E1, T6, S6] is
                                     and primitive values when they are passed into                                               about the understanding of a
                                     methods that change the values                                                               concept which can not be
                                                                                                                                  operationalized and extracted
                                                                                                                                  automatically.
                                     [S7] Create a constructor chaining (use“this()”      Mapped to KU          [K5] Method       One to one mapping.
                                     method to call one constructor from another                                and
                                     constructor                                                                Encapsulation
                                     [S8] Use variable length arguments in the                                  KU
                                     methods
                 [T7] Working with   [S1] Describe inheritance and its benefits              Excluded                 –           This subtopic [E1, T7, S1] is
                 Inheritance                                                                                                      about the understanding of a
                                                                                                                                  concept which can not be
                                                                                                                                  operationalized and extracted
                                                                                                                                  automatically.
                                     [S2] Develop code that makes use of                  Mapped to KU         [K6] Inheritance   One to one mapping.
                                     polymorphism; develop code that overrides                                       KU
                                     methods; differentiate between the type of a
                                     reference and the type of an object
                                     [S3] Use casting to subclass
                                     [S4] Use super and this to access objects and
                                     constructors
                                     [S5] Use abstract classes and interfaces
                 [T8] Handling       [S1] Differentiate among checked exceptions,            Excluded                 –           The subtopic [E1, T8, S1] is
                 Exceptions          RuntimeException, and Error                                                                  about the understanding of a
                                                                                                                                  concept which can not be
                                                                                                                                  operationalized and extracted
                                                                                                                                  automatically.
                                     [S2] Create a try-catch block and determine how    Moved into [E2, T15]    [K11] Exception   Avoid conceptual overlap
                                     exceptions alter normal program flow                 Exceptions and       and Assertion KU   between the two certification
                                                                                            Assertions                            exams.
                                     [S3] Describe the advantages of exception               Excluded                 –           The subtopic [E1, T8, S3] is
                                     handling                                                                                     about the understanding of a
                                                                                                                                  concept which can not be
                                                                                                                                  operationalized and extracted
                                                                                                                                  automatically.
Using KUs of PLs to Recommend Reviewers for PRs: An Empirical Study                                                                                              45

                                                                                                                 Knowledge Unit
   Exam             Topic                              Subtopic                           Mapping Action                                        Reason
                                                                                                                     (KU)
                                   [S4] Create and invoke a method that throws an        Moved into [E2, T15]     [K11] Exception    Avoid conceptual overlap
                                   exception                                             Exceptions and                 KU           between the two certification
                                   [S5] Use common exception classes and                 Assertions                                  exams.
                                   categories(such as NullPointerException,
                                   ArithmeticException,
                                   ArrayIndexOutOfBoundsException,
                                   ClassCastException)
              [T9] Working with    [S1] Manipulate data using the StringBuilder          Moved into [E2, T20]       [K15] String     Avoid conceptual overlap
              selected classes     class and its methods                                  String Processing        Processing KU     between the two certification
              from the Java API                                                                                                      exams.
                                   [S2] Create and manipulate strings
                                   [S3] Create and manipulate calendar data using        Moved into [E2, T16]     [K12] Date Time
                                   classes from java.time.LocalDateTime,                   Use Java SE 8              API KU
                                   java.time.LocalDate,java.time.LocalTime,                Date/Time API
                                   java.time.format.DateTimeFormatter,
                                   java.time.Period
                                   [S4] Declare and use an ArrayList of a given type     Moved into [E2, T12]    [K8] Generics and
                                                                                            Generics and           Collection KU
                                                                                             Collection
                                   [S5] Write a simple Lambda expression that            Moved into [E2, T13]     [K9] Functional
                                   consumes a Lambda Predicate expression                  Lambda Built-in         Interface KU
                                                                                         Functional Interfaces
 [E2] Java    [T10] Java Class     [S1] Implement encapsulation                           Moved into [E1, T6]    [K5] Method and     Avoid conceptual overlap
 SE 8 Pro-    Design                                                                     Working with Methods    Encapsulation KU    between the two certification
 grammer II                                                                               and Encapsulation                          exams.
 certifica-
                                   S2] Implement inheritance including visibility         Moved into [E1, T7]     [K6] Inheritance
 tion
                                   modifiers and composition                                Working with                KU
 exam
                                                                                             Inheritance
                                   [S3] Implement polymorphism
                                   [S4] Override hasCode, equals, and toString            Moved into [E1, T6]    [K5] Method and
                                   methods from Object class                             Working with Methods    Encapsulation KU
                                                                                          and Encapsulation
                                   [S5] Create and use singleton classes and             Moved into [E2, T11]      [K7] Advanced     Avoid conceptual overlap
                                   immutable classes                                       Advanced Class         Class Design KU    between the topics of the
                                                                                               Design                                certification exams.
                                   [S6] Develop code that uses the static keyword on      Moved into [E1, T6]    [K5] Method and     Avoid conceptual overlap
                                   initialize blocks, variables, and methods             Working with Methods    Encapsulation KU    between the two certification
                                                                                          and Encapsulation                          exams
              [T11] Advanced       [S1] Develop code that uses abstract classes and       Moved into [E1, T7]     [K6] Inheritance   Avoid conceptual overlap
              Class Design         methods                                                  Working with                KU           between the two certification
                                                                                             Inheritance                             exams.
                                   [S2] Develop code that uses the final classes            Mapped to KU          [K7] Advanced      One to one mapping.
                                   [S3] Create inner classes, including static inner                              Class Design
                                   classes, local classes, nested classes, and                                    KU
                                   anonymous inner classes
                                   [S4] Use enumerated types including methods
                                   and constructors in an enum type
                                   [S5] Develop code that uses the @Override
                                   annotation
                                   [S6] Create and use lambda expressions
              [T12] Generics and   [S1] Create and use a generic class                      Mapped to KU         [K8] Generics and   One to one mapping.
              Collection           [S2] Create and useArrayList, TreeSet, TreeMap,                               Collection KU
                                   and ArrayDequeobjects
                                   [S3] Use java.util.Comparator and
                                   java.lang.Comparable interfaces
                                   [S4] Iterate using forEach methods of List
                                   [S5] Describe and use the Stream interface and        Moved into [E2, T14]    [K10] Stream API    Avoid conceptual overlap
                                   the Stream pipeline                                   Java Stream API         KU                  between the topics of the
                                   [S6] Filter a collection by using lambda                                                          certification exams.
                                   expressions
                                   [S7] Use method references with streams
              [T13] Built-in       [S1] Use the built-in interfaces included in the         Mapped to KU          [K9] Functional    One to one mapping.
              Functional           java.util.function package such as Predicate,                                   Interface KU
              Interfaces           Consumer, Function, and Supplier
                                   [S2] Develop code that uses primitive versions of
                                   functional interfaces
                                   [S3] Develop code that uses binary versions of
                                   functional interfaces
                                   [S4] Develop code that uses
                                   theUnaryOperatorinterface
              [T14] Java Stream    [S1] Develop code to extract data from an object         Mapped to KU         [K10] Stream API    One to one mapping.
              API                  using peek() and map() methods, including                                            KU
                                   primitive versions of the map() method
                                   [S2] Search for data by using search methods of
                                   the Stream classes, including findFirst, findAny,
                                   anyMatch, allMatch, noneMatch
                                   [S3] Develop code that uses the Optional class
                                   [S4] Develop code that uses Stream data methods
                                   and calculation methods
                                   [S5] Sort a collection using Stream API
                                   [S6] Save results to a collection using the collect
                                   method and group/partition data using the
                                   Collectors class
                                   [S7] Use flatMap() methods in the Stream API
46                                                                                                              Md Ahasanuzzaman et al.

                                                                                                           Knowledge Unit
     Exam            Topic                              Subtopic                          Mapping Action                                   Reason
                                                                                                               (KU)
               [T15] Exceptions     [S1] Use try-catch and throws statements               Mapped to KU    [K11] Exception      One to one mapping.
               and Assertions       [S2] Use catch, multi-catch, and finally clauses                       KU
                                    [S3] Use autoclose resources with a
                                    try-with-resources statement
                                    [S4] Create custom exceptions and autocloseable
                                    resources
                                    [S5]Test invariants by using assertions
               [T16] Use Java SE    [S1] Create and manage date-based and                  Mapped to KU     [K12] Date Time     One to one mapping.
               8 Data/Time API      time-based events, including a combination of                               API KU
                                    date and time into a single object using
                                    LocalDate, LocalTime, LocalDateTime, Instant,
                                    Period, and Duration
                                    [S2] Work with dates and times across timezones
                                    and manage changes resulting from daylight
                                    savings, including Format date and times values
                                    [S3] Define and create and manage date-based
                                    and time-based events using Instant, Period,
                                    Duration, and Temporal Unit
               [T17] Java           [S1] Read and write data using the console             Mapped to KU      [K13] IO KU        One to one mapping.
               I/O                  [S2] Use BufferedReader, BufferedWriter, File,
               Fundamentals         FileReader, FileWriter, FileInputStream,
                                    FileOutputStream, ObjectOutputStream,
                                    ObjectInputStream, and PrintWriter in the
                                    java.io package
               [T18] Java File      [S1] Use the Path interface to operate on file and     Mapped to KU      [K14] NIO KU       One to one mapping.
               I/O (NIO.2)          directory paths
                                    [S2] Use the Files class to check, read, delete,
                                    copy, move, and manage metadata of a file or
                                    directory
               [T19]                [S1] Develop code that implements “is-a” and/or          Excluded              –            This topic is about the
               Object-              “has-a” relationships                                                                       implementation and detection
               Oriented             [S2] Apply object composition principles                                                    of different design patterns.
               Design               [S3] Design a class using the Singleton design                                              This topic is not included in
               Principles           pattern                                                                                     this study because detection
                                    [S4] Write code to implement the DAO pattern                                                of such design patterns is
                                    [S5] Design and create objects using a factory,                                             itself an active research in the
                                    and use factories from the API                                                              software engineering
                                                                                                                                community [63, 72].
               [T20]                [S1] Search, parse and build strings                   Mapped to KU    [K15] String         One to one mapping.
               String               [S2] Search, parse, and replace strings by using                       Processing KU
               Processing           regular expressions
                                    [S3] Use string formatting
               [T21] Concurrency    [S1] Create worker threads using Runnable,             Mapped to KU    [K16] Concurrency    One to one mapping.
                                    Callable and use an ExecutorService to                                        KU
                                    concurrently execute tasks
                                    [S2] Identify potential threading problems among
                                    deadlock, starvation, livelock, and race conditions
                                    [S3] Use synchronized keyword and
                                    java.util.concurrent.atomic package to control the
                                    order of thread execution
                                    [S4] Use java.util.concurrent collections and
                                    classes including
                                    CyclicBarrierandCopyOnWriteArrayList
               [T22] Building       [S5] Use parallel Fork/Join Framework                  Mapped to KU     [K17] Database      One to one mapping.
               Database                                                                                           KU
               Applications with    [S1] Use the interfaces that make up the core of
               JDBC                 the JDBC API including the Driver, Connection,
                                    Statement, and ResultSet interfaces
                                    [S2] Identify the components required to connect
                                    to a database using the DriverManagerclass
                                    including the JDBC URL
                                    [S3] Submit queries and read results from the
                                    database, including creating statements,
                                    returning result sets, iterating through the
                                    results, and properly closing result sets,
                                    statements, and connections
               [T23] Localization   [S1] Read and set the locale by using the Locale       Mapped to KU    [K18] Localization   One to one mapping.
                                    object                                                                    Knowledge
                                    [S2] Create and read a Properties file
                                    [S3] Build a resource bundle for each locale and
                                    load a resource bundle in an application
               [T24]                [S1] Describe Java EE 7 standards, containers,           Excluded              –            [E3, T24] is basically about
 [E3] Java
               Understanding        APIs, and services                                                                          the understanding of the
 EE certifi-
               Java EE              [S2] Differentiate between application component                                            concept of the Java EE
 cation
               Architecture         functionalities                                                                             architecture and components.
 exam
                                    [S3] Demonstrate understanding of Enterprise                                                None of the subtopics of [E3,
                                    JavaBeans and CDI beans, their lifecycle and                                                T24] can be operationalized
                                    memory scopes                                                                               and extracted automatically.
                                    [S4] Demonstrate understanding of the                                                       So, [E3, T24] is excluded from
                                    relationship between bean components,                                                       this study.
                                    annotations, injections, and JNDI
                                    [S5] Create and use singleton classes and
                                    immutable classes
                                    [S6] Develop code that uses the static keyword on
                                    initialize blocks, variables, and methods
               [T25] Manage         [S1] Create JPA Entity and Object-Relational           Mapped to KU       [K19] Java        One to one mapping.
               Persistence using    Mappings (ORM)                                                          Persistence KU
               JPA Entities and     c
               BeanValidation       [S3] Create and execute JPQL statements
Using KUs of PLs to Recommend Reviewers for PRs: An Empirical Study                                                                                                        47

                                                                                                                     Knowledge Unit
   Exam               Topic                              Subtopic                              Mapping Action                                        Reason
                                                                                                                         (KU)
               [T26] Implement       [S1] Create session EJB components containing              Mapped to KU          [K20] Enterprise   One to one mapping.
               Business Logic by     synchronous and asynchronous business methods,                                    Java Bean KU
               Using EJBs            manage the life cycle container callbacks, and use
                                     interceptors
                                     [S2] Create EJB timers
                                     [S3] Demonstrate understanding of how to control              Excluded                  –           This subtopic [E3, T26, S3] is
                                     EJB transactions, distinguish Container Managed                                                     about the understanding of a
                                     (CMT) and Bean Managed (BMT) transactions                                                           concept which can not be
                                                                                                                                         operationalized and extracted
                                                                                                                                         automatically.
               [T27] Use Java        [S1] Implement Java EE message producers and               Mapped to KU            [K21] Java       One to one mapping.
               Message Service       consumers, including Message-Driven beans                                        Message Service
               API                                                                                                       API KU
                                     [S2] Use transactions with JMS API
               [T28] Implement       [S1] Create SOAP Web Services and Clients                  Mapped to KU         [K22] SOAP Web      One to one mapping.
               SOAP Services by      using JAX-WS API                                                                   Service KU
               Using JAX-WS          [S2] Create marshall and unmarshall Java
               and JAXB API          Objects by using JAXB API
                                     [S1] Create Java Servlet and use HTTP methods              Mapped to KU         [K23] Servlet KU    One to one mapping.
               [T29] Create Java
                                     [S2] Handle HTTP headers, parameters, cookies
               Web Applications
                                     [S3] Manage servlet life cycle with container
               using Servlets
                                     callback methods and WebFilters
                                     [S1] Describe JSP life cycle                                  Excluded                  –
               [T30] Create Java                                                                                                         [E3,T30] is excluded as we
                                     [S2] Use JSP syntax, use tag libraries and
               Web Applications                                                                                                          parse only .java files not .jsp
                                     Expression Language (EL)
               using JSPs                                                                                                                for this study.
                                     [S3] Handle errors using Java Server Pages
               [T31] Implement       [S1] Apply REST service conventions                        Mapped to KU         [K24] Java REST     One to one mapping.
               REST Services         [S2] Create REST Services and clients using                                     API KU
               using JAX-RS API      JAX-RS API
               [T32] Create Java     [S1] Understand and utilise WebSockets                        Excluded                  –           This subtopic [E3, T32, S1] is
               Applications using    communication style and lifecycle                                                                   about the understanding of a
               WebSockets                                                                                                                concept which can not be
                                                                                                                                         operationalized and extracted
                                                                                                                                         automatically.
                                     [S2] Create WebSocket Server and Client                    Mapped to KU          [K25] Websocket    One to one mapping.
                                     Endpoint Handlers                                                                      KU
                                     [S3] Produce and consume, encode and decode
                                     WebSocket messages
               [T33] Develop Web     [S1] Describe JSF architecture, lifecycle and                 Excluded                  –           This subtopic [E3, T33, S1] is
               Applications using    navigation                                                                                          about the understanding of a
               JSFs                                                                                                                      concept which can not be
                                                                                                                                         operationalized and extracted
                                                                                                                                         automatically.
                                     [S2] Use JSF syntax and use JSF Tag Libraries              Mapped to KU         [K26] Java Server   One to one mapping.
                                     [S3] Handle localisation and produce messages                                   Faces KU
                                     [S4] Use Expression Language (EL) and interact
                                     with CDI beans
               [T34] Secure Java     [S1] Describe Java EE declarative and                         Excluded                  –           This topic [E3, T34] is about
               EE 7 Applications     programmatic security and configure                                                                 the understanding of a
                                     authentication using application roles and                                                          concept which can not be
                                     security constraints and Login Modules                                                              operationalized and extracted
                                     [S2] Describe WebServices security standards                                                        automatically.
                                     [S1] Create CDI Bean Qualifiers, Producers,                Mapped to KU         [K27] Contexts      One to one mapping.
               [T35] Use CDI
                                     Disposers, Interceptors, Events, and Stereotypes                                and Dependency
               Beans
                                                                                                                     Injection (CDI)
                                                                                                                     KU
               [T36] Use             [S1] Demonstrate understanding of Java                   Moved into [E2, T21]   [K16] Concurrency   Avoid conceptual overlap
               Concurrency API       Concurrency Utilities and use Managed                       Concurrency                 KU          between the two certification
               in Java EE 7          Executors                                                                                           exams.
               Applications
               [T37] Use Batch       [S1] Implement batch jobs using JSR 352 API                Mapped to KU            [K28] Batch      One to one mapping.
               API in Java EE 7                                                                                        Processing KU
               Applications
 * The notation [Ei, Tj, Sk] is employed to refer to a subtopic Sk from topic Tj of exam Ei
48                                                                                                           Md Ahasanuzzaman et al.


Table 8 Knowledge Units derived from the Java SE 8 Programmer I Exam, Java SE 8
Programmer II Exam, and Java EE Developer Exam
     Knowledge Unit
                                                                               Key Capabilities
         (KU)
 [K1] Data Type KU        [C1] Declare and initialize different types of variableS(e.g., primitive type, parameterized type, and array type), including
                          the casting of primitive data types
 [K2] Operator and De-    [C1] Use Java operators(e.g., assignment and postfix operators); use parentheses to override operator precedence
 cision KU                [C2] Test equality between strings and other objects using == and equals()
                          [C3] Create and use if, if-else, and ternary constructs
                          [C4] Use a switch statement
 [K3] Array KU            [C1] Declare, instantiate, initialize and use a one-dimensional array
                          [C2] Declare, instantiate, initialize and use a multi-dimensional array
 [K4] Loop KU             [C1] Create and use while loops
                          [C2] Create and use for loops, including the enhanced for loop
                          [C3] Create and use do-while loops
                          [C4] Use break statement
                          [C5] Use continue statement
 [K5] Method and En-      [C1] Create methods with arguments and return values
 capsulation KU           [C2] Apply the “static” keyword to methods, fields, and blocks
                          [C3] Create an overloaded method and overloaded constructor
                          [C4] Create a constructor chaining (use “this()” method to call one constructor from another constructor
                          [C5] Use variable length arguments in the methods
                          [C6] Use different access modifiers (e.g., private and protected) other than “default” [C7] Apply encapsulation: identify set
                          and get method to initialize any private class variables
                          [C8] Apply encapsulation: Immutable class generation-final class and initialize private variables through the constructor
 [K6] Inheritance KU      [C1] Use basic polymorphis (e.g., a superclass refers to a subclass)
                          [C2] Use polymorphic parameter (e.g., pass instances of a subclass or interface to a method)
                          [C3] Create overridden methods
                          [C4] Create “abstract” classes and “abstract” methods
                          [C5] Use “super()” and the “super” keyword to access the members(e.g., fields and methods) of a parent class
                          [C6] Use casting in referring a subclass object to a superclass object
 [K7] Advanced Class      [C1] Create inner classes, including static inner classes, local classes, nested classes, and anonymous inner classes
 Design KU                [C2] Develop code that uses the final
                          [C3] Use enumerated types including methods and constructors in an “enum” type
                          [C4] Create singleton classes and immutable classes
 [K8] Generics and Col-   [C1] Create and use a generic class
 lection KU               [C2] Create and use ArrayList, TreeSet, TreeMap, and ArrayDeque
                          [C3] Use java.util.Comparator and java.lang.Comparable interfaces
                          [C4] Iterate using forEach methods of List
 [K9] Functional Inter-   [C1] Use the built-in interfaces included in the java.util.function packages such as Predicate, Consumer, Function, and
 face KU                  Supplier
                          [C2] Develop code that uses primitive versions of functional interfaces
                          [C3] Develop code that uses binary versions of functional interfaces
                          [C4] Develop code that uses the UnaryOperator interface
 [K10] Stream API KU      [C1] Develop code to extract data from an object using peek() and map() methods, including primitive versions of the
                          map() method
                          [C2] Search for data by using search methods of the Stream classes, including findFirst, findAny, anyMatch, allMatch,
                          noneMatch
                          [C3] Develop code that uses the Optional class
                          [C4] Develop code that uses Stream data methods and calculation methods
                          [C5] Sort a collection using Stream API
                          [C6] Save results to a collection using the collect method
                          [C7] UseflatMap() methods in the Stream API
 [K11] Exception KU       [C1] Create a try-catch block
                          [C2] Use catch, multi-catch, and finally clauses
                          [C3] Use autoclose resources with a try-with-resources statement
                          [C4] Create custom exceptions and autocloseable resources
                          [C5] Create and invoke a method that throws an exception
                          [C6] Use common exception classes and categories(such                  as   NullPointerException,      ArithmeticException,
                          ArrayIndexOutOfBoundsException, ClassCastException)
                          [C5] Use assertions
 [K12] Date Time API      [C1] Create and manage date-based and time-based events including a combination of date and time into a single object
 KU                       using LocalDate, LocalTime, LocalDateTime, Instant, Period, and Duration
                          [C2] Formatting date and times values for using different timezones
                          [C3] Create and manage date-based and time-based events using Instant, Period, Duration, and Temporal Unit
                          [C4] Create and manipulate calendar data using classes from java.time.LocalDateTime, java.time.LocalDate,
                          java.time.LocalTime, java.time.format.DateTimeFormatter, and java.time.Period
 [K13] IO KU              [C1] Read and write data using the console
                          [C2] Use BufferedReader, BufferedWriter, File, FileReader, FileWriter, FileInputStream, FileOutputStream,
                          ObjectOutputStream, ObjectInputStream, and PrintWriter in the java.io package
 [K14] NIO KU             [C1] Use the Path interface to operate on file and directory paths
                          [C2] Use the Files class to check, read, delete, copy, move, and manage metadata a file or directory
 [K15] String Process-    [C1] Search, parse and build strings
 ing KU                   [C2] Manipulate data using the StringBuilder class and its methods
                          [C3] Use regular expression using the Pattern and Matcher class
                          [C4] Use string formatting
Using KUs of PLs to Recommend Reviewers for PRs: An Empirical Study                                                                                49

         Knowledge Unit
                                                                                               Key Capabilities
             (KU)
 [K16] Concurrency KU         [C1] Create worker threads using Runnable, Callable and use an ExecutorService to concurrently execute tasks
                              [C2] Use synchronized keyword and java.util.concurrent.atomic package to control the order of thread execution
                              [C3] Use java.util.concurrent collections and classes including CyclicBarrier and CopyOnWriteArrayList
                              [C4] Use parallel Fork/Join Framework
 [K17] Database KU            [C1] Describe the interfaces that make up the core of the JDBC API, including the Driver, Connection, Statement,
                              and ResultSet interfaces
                              [C2] Submit queries and read results from the database, including creating statements, returning result sets, iterating
                              through the results, and properly closing result sets, statements, and connections
 [K18] Localization KU        [C1] Read and set the locale by using the Locale object
                              [C2] Build a resource bundle for each locale and load a resource bundle in an application
 [K19] Java Persistence KU    [C1] Create JPA Entity and Object-Relational Mappings (ORM)
                              [C2] Use Entity Manager to perform database operations, transactions, and locking with JPA entities
                              [C3] Create and execute JPQL statements
 [K20] Enterprise Java Bean   [S1] Create session EJB components containing synchronous and asynchronous business methods, manage the life
 KU                           cycle container callbacks, and use interceptors.
                              [S2] Create EJB timers
 [K21] Java Message Service   [S1] Implement Java EE message producers and consumers, including Message-Driven beans
 API KU                       [S2] Use transactions with JMS API
 [K22] SOAP Web Service KU    [S1] Create SOAP Web Services and Clients using JAX-WS API
                              [S2] Create marshall and unmarshall Java Objects by using JAXB API
 [K23] Servlet KU             [S1] Create Java Servlet and use HTTP methods
                              [S2] Handle HTTP headers, parameters, cookies
                              [S3] Manage servlet life cycle with container callback methods and WebFilters
 [K24] Java REST API KU       [S1] Apply REST service conventions
                              [S2] Create REST Services and clients using JAX-RS API
 [K25] Websocket KU           [S1] Create WebSocket Server and Client Endpoint Handlers
                              [S3] Produce and consume, encode and decode WebSocket messages
 [K26] Java Server Faces KU   [S1] Use JSF syntax and use JSF Tag Libraries
                              [S2] Handle localisation and produce messages
                              [S3] Use Expression Language (EL) and interact with CDI beans
 [K27] Contexts and Depen-    [S1] Create CDI Bean Qualifiers, Producers, Disposers, Interceptors, Events, and Stereotypes
 dency Injection (CDI) KU
 [K28] Batch Processing KU    [S1] Implement batch jobs using JSR 352 API
