                                                         Following Dragons: Code Review-Guided Fuzzing

                                                              Viet Hoang Luu                                             Amirmohammad Pasdar
                                             viethoangl@student.unimelb.edu.au                               Amirmohammad.Pasdar@unimelb.edu.au
                                                        Wachiraphan Charoenwet                                                  Toby Murray
                                             wcharoenwet@student.unimelb.edu.au                                    toby.murray@unimelb.edu.au
arXiv:2602.10487v1 [cs.CR] 11 Feb 2026




                                                             Shaanan Cohney                                                   Van-Thuan Pham
                                                        shaanan@cohney.info                                        thuan.pham@unimelb.edu.au

                                                                                     The University of Melbourne


                                                                                                  Abstract

                                                   Modern fuzzers scale to large, real-world software but often fail to exercise the program states develop-
                                               ers consider most fragile or security-critical. Such states are typically deep in the execution space, gated by
                                               preconditions, or overshadowed by lower-value paths that consume limited fuzzing budgets. Meanwhile, de-
                                               velopers routinely surface risk-relevant insights during code review, yet this information is largely ignored by
                                               automated testing tools.
                                                   We present EyeQ, a system that leverages developer intelligence from code reviews to guide fuzzing.
                                               EyeQ extracts security-relevant signals from review discussions, localizes the implicated program regions,
                                               and translates these insights into annotation-based guidance for fuzzing. The approach operates atop existing
                                               annotation-aware fuzzing, requiring no changes to program semantics or developer workflows.
                                                   We first validate EyeQ through a human-guided feasibility study on a security-focused dataset of PHP code
                                               reviews, establishing a strong baseline for review-guided fuzzing. We then automate the workflow using a large
                                               language model with carefully designed prompts. EyeQ significantly improves vulnerability discovery over
                                               standard fuzzing configurations, uncovering more than 40 previously unknown bugs in the security-critical
                                               PHP codebase.


                                         1    Introduction
                                         Code review is often where developers mark “here be dragons.” Conventional fuzzing rarely reads the map.



                                             This paper shows how to extract developers’ risk-relevant insights from code review—about fragile, complex,
                                         or security-critical logic—and use them to steer fuzzers toward high-risk program states.
                                             Fuzzing occupies a distinctive point in the space of vulnerability discovery: it scales to real-world software,
                                         operates directly on executable artifacts, and continues to uncover vulnerabilities even in heavily scrutinized sys-
                                         tems [1].
                                             However, fuzzers often fail to test the program states developers worry about most—because they are (1) often
                                         deep in the state graph; (2) may be gated by blockers (preconditions that must be satisfied); (3) and fuzzers spend
                                         valuable time on less valuable parts of the space that they could instead spend targeting higher-value states. As a
                                         result, vulnerabilities continue to evade state-of-the-art fuzzers.



                                                                                                      1
    This returns us to the value of incorporating additional signals to guide fuzzers. If a state is reachable ab initio,
a fuzzer has some probability of reaching the risky state on its own. However, in practice, time is a major constraint
on vulnerability discovery: where a fuzzer spends its time matters. Therefore we postulate that prioritizing states
that developers themselves flag as risky could yield substantial real-world gains, improving the likelihood that
limited fuzzing resources will uncover high-impact bugs.

  Key postulate. Developers leave clues about where code is brittle; fuzzers can use those clues. This does
  not magically bypass every blocker, but it could drive a fuzzer to spend more of its limited time in the parts
  of the space where failures are most likely—and most costly.

     A natural question, then, is which forms of developer-produced knowledge are best suited to this role. Software
artifacts such as requirements documents, specifications, user manuals, and inline comments can all encode human
insight, but in practice they are often incomplete or unavailable, and quickly become stale as code evolves.
     Code reviews differ from many other development artifacts in two important respects. First, they are tightly
coupled to code changes and diffs—the moments when new logic is introduced and existing invariants are most
likely to be disrupted. Second, code review often is explicit in focus on correctness, edge cases, and bugs.
     In this work, we therefore focus on the exemplar of code reviews as our source of human intelligence to guide
fuzzing.
     Leveraging code-reviews for fuzzing requires us to overcome a series of practical challenges, for each of
which we propose a solution and evaluate its eﬀicacy. This leads to our core challenge, along with our proposed
workflow:

  Workflow. The greatest overarching challenge is in transforming unstructured review comments (written
  in natural language) into guidance that can be consumed by a fuzzing engine. We address this through
  our workflow that: 1. identifies security-relevant code reviews, 2. localizes the program components refer-
  enced by those reviews, and 3. converts review insights into program annotations that introduce additional
  guidance signals for fuzzing. Our workflow is designed to operate atop fuzzing infrastructures that support
  annotation-based guidance, such as IJON [2], which enables the exploration of deep program state spaces
  through developer-provided annotations.

     We first validate our proposed approach through a proof-of-concept study with a human analyst adding anno-
tations. To do so we leverage an existing security-focused dataset of PHP code reviews [3] wherein developers
raise many security concerns that are not addressed in subsequent commits. This produces a potential target-rich
environment for our validation experiments.
     For each review comment, we hand-analyze the associated pull request to localize the code regions implicated
by the developer’s concern. We then annotate the code with semantically appropriate program annotations, and
fuzz using AFL++ with IJON-guidance enabled.
     The results from this were promising enough—41 previously unknown bugs in PHP—to validate the initial
hypothesis. These results also provide an accompanying baseline against which to evaluate the automated ap-
proach. We then proceed to the automated approach (in which we invoke an LLM for manual tasks). The LLM
here is not fundamental to capitalizing on our insights—rather it helps minimize human effort and to make the
trade-offs worthwhile.
     Finally, we evaluate the automated approach and show that our system significantly improves vulnerability
discovery compared to baseline fuzzing configurations and provides for new directions in augmenting automated
testing with human intelligence.




                                                           2
    Highlighted Contributions.
    C1     We identify code reviews as a useful and previously underexploited source of human intelligence for
           guiding fuzzing.
    C2     We propose an abstract approach for transforming code review insights into annotation-based fuzzing
           guidance.
    C3     We operationalize our approach with both a human-guided feasibility study and subsequently a fully
           automated LLM-based system to realize this workflow at scale—evaluating both elements of our ap-
           proach and the combined whole.
    C4     We discover 46 previously unknown bugs in the large, security-critical PHP project.


2     Background and Motivating Example
We begin with some necessary preliminaries for readers unfamiliar with fuzzing, where fuzzing gets stuck, and
further, with typical development practices as of writing.

2.1      Fuzzing and Fuzz Blockers
Fuzzing is an automated testing technique that generates inputs and executes them against a target program to
expand coverage and uncover abnormal behaviors such as crashes and memory safety violations. Code coverage–
guided greybox fuzzing (CGF)–as implemented in widely used open-source tools such as AFL/AFL++ [4],
LibAFL [5], libFuzzer, and Honggfuzz–is among the most successful approaches in practice. Unlike blackbox
fuzzing, which treats the program as an opaque entity, or whitebox techniques such as symbolic execution, which
attempt exhaustive reasoning about program semantics, greybox fuzzing strikes a pragmatic balance.
     A central idea in CGF is feedback-guided fuzzing, in which the fuzzer adapts its input generation strategy
based on observed execution behavior. In practice, code coverage serves as the primary feedback signal: transi-
tions between basic blocks are tracked to approximate control-flow diversity while mitigating path explosion. In
representative CGF tools such as AFL, the target program is instrumented to update a shared coverage bitmap,
mapping executed edges to pseudo-random indices with discretized hitcounts. This design enables fast bitmap
comparisons via bitwise operations, sustaining thousands of executions per second.
     CGF has demonstrated strong empirical effectiveness, including sustained success in large-scale deployments
such as OSS-Fuzz [6], and it scales well to large and complex codebases where more precise analyses suffer from
state explosion and prohibitive computational cost [7].
     Despite its success, Gao et al. [8] identified several recurring blockers that prevent fuzzers from reaching
deeper program states. These obstacles arise along both untainted and tainted paths.
     A tainted path is one in which key branches are controlled by bytes derived from the fuzzer’s input–i.e., input-
tainted data flows into relevant conditionals–so progress requires generating inputs that satisfy semantic checks,
including magic values, structured parsing constraints, or checksums. In contrast, untainted paths are primar-
ily gated by factors not directly influenced by input bytes, such as missing or incomplete drivers or harnesses,
configuration and environment state, or scheduling behavior.
     For untainted paths, progress has largely come from automating fuzz driver generation and related harnessing
techniques, which remain an active area of research [9–11]. For tainted paths, most approaches instead focus on
strengthening the fuzzer itself, for example through improved mutation strategies [12–14], richer feedback signals
[15, 16], or more effective corpus management and scheduling [17, 18]. Orthogonal to both directions, human-in-
the-loop fuzzing [2, 19–21] demonstrates that developer insight can be highly effective in steering input generation
and exploration toward otherwise hard-to-reach program behaviors.


                                                         3
   However, existing human-in-the-loop approaches typically require significant manual effort, such as writing
grammars, providing interactive feedback, or designing specialized guidance mechanisms. While effective, these
methods do not scale well and introduce practical barriers to adoption.

  Key question. Can we leverage human intelligence to guide fuzzing without requiring additional human
  effort during the fuzzing process?


2.2   Annotation-Aware Fuzzing
Annotation-aware fuzzing, introduced by Aschermann et al. [2], augments coverage-guided fuzzing with semantic
feedback to overcome a key limitation of edge coverage: its inability to reflect progress toward deep, vulnerability-
prone program states. Many real-world bugs depend on subtle invariants or stateful logic that no longer produce
new coverage once surrounding code is explored.
     IJON addresses this by exposing user-defined program signals via lightweight instrumentation macros. An-
notations such as IJON_SET(x) report numeric program state, while IJON_MAX(x) and IJON_MIN(x)
reward monotonic progress; discrete execution phases can be captured using IJON_STATE(). These signals
are treated as first-class feedback, allowing the fuzzer to prioritize semantically meaningful executions even when
coverage does not increase.
     However, IJON assumes manual insertion of annotations by experts, which limits scalability. Our work builds
on the same principle but removes this bottleneck by automatically extracting semantic guidance from code re-
views.

2.3   Modern Code Review
Modern Code Review (MCR) has evolved into a lightweight, tool-supported, and socially embedded practice,
largely replacing the formal, synchronous inspection models of early software engineering [22–24]. In contrast
to meeting-driven reviews, MCR emphasizes asynchronous discussion, rapid iteration, and tight integration with
version control systems.
     Beyond coordinating collaboration, MCR serves as a rich forum for articulating developer reasoning about
correctness, design trade-offs, and security risks. Reviewers routinely flag logic errors, unsafe assumptions, frag-
ile invariants, and error-handling issues through inline comments and threaded discussions [22, 25, 26]. Empirical
studies show that security-relevant reasoning is often expressed implicitly–as discussions of coding weaknesses
or questionable logic rather than explicit vulnerability reports [3]. For instance, analyses of OpenSSL and PHP
reviews find that weakness-related discussions occur 21–33 times more frequently than direct mentions of ex-
ploitable flaws, yet collectively span 35 of 40 CWE-699 categories [3].

  Key insight. Despite its effectiveness at eliciting high-quality human insight, MCR provides no systematic
  mechanism for reusing this knowledge beyond the review process itself. Many identified concerns remain
  partially mitigated, deferred, or unresolved, and patches with outstanding security issues are sometimes
  merged [3]. Consequently, valuable understanding of risky program states, fragile assumptions, and subtle
  behaviors is rarely propagated into later testing and validation phases. This motivates our approach: rather
  than treating code reviews solely as communication artifacts, we view them as a scalable source of semantic
  guidance that can be automatically extracted and translated into actionable feedback for dynamic analysis
  approaches like fuzzing.




                                                         4
2.4      Motivating Example: A Missed Stack Overflow in PHP Fibers
To illustrate the limitations of existing CGF fuzzers and the value of reviewer-guided semantic feedback, we
examine a previously unknown bug in the Fibers component of the PHP runtime that was not discovered by
continuous fuzzing prior to our work. PHP is a widely deployed scripting language that powers millions of
websites worldwide. Fibers, introduced in PHP 8.1, provide lightweight user-space concurrency by allowing
execution contexts to be paused and resumed with independent stacks.
    The vulnerability (GitHub issue #20483 1 ) manifests as a stack overflow in zend_fiber_execute() when the
fiber.stack_size configuration option is set to certain atypical values (e.g., ”9690x-D”, as shown in our proof-of-
concept and Listing 1). In particular, the bug is triggered when the configured stack size is malformed or unusually
small yet still passes validation. Under these conditions, fiber execution can lead to unchecked stack growth during
function calls or context switching, ultimately resulting in a stack overflow detected by AddressSanitizer and a
process crash. The issue was subsequently fixed by strengthening the validation and handling of the fiber stack
size to prevent unsafe configurations.

  1 <?php
  2 class A {
  3     function __destruct() {
  4         ini_set(”fiber.stack_size”, ”9690x-D”);
  5         $fiber = new Fiber(function() {});
  6         try {
  7              $fiber->start();
  8         } catch (Throwable $e) {}
  9     }
 10 }
 11 new A;
 12 /* AddressSanitizer: stack-overflow ... */



                Listing 1: PHP code that triggers a Stack Overflow by configuring a Malformed Fiber Stack size.

    Despite PHP having been integrated into OSS-Fuzz for several years and continuously fuzzed with a diverse
set of manually curated test cases (as shown in Listing 2) and automatically generated seeds, this bug remained
undiscovered until our analysis. This highlights a fundamental limitation of existing fuzzers: the vulnerability is
not exposed by covering new control-flow paths, but by generating specific numeric values for a configuration pa-
rameter that induce unsafe runtime behavior. Coverage-guided fuzzers are generally ineffective in such scenarios,
as mutating existing seeds rarely produces the precise values required to trigger the fault.

  1 <?php
  2 /* Zend/tests/fibers/negative_stack_size.phpt */
  3 ini_set(”fiber.stack_size”, ”-1”);
  4 /* expected: invalid stack size warning */
  5 /* Zend/tests/fibers/gh10249.phpt */
  6 ini_set(”fiber.stack_size”, ””);
  7 /* expected: Fiber stack size is too small */



                        Listing 2: Existing Fiber Stack-Size Tests Exercising the Same Configuration Path

    In principle, incorporating data-flow–aware feedback could help preserve test cases that exercise different
stack size values. In practice, however, such approaches are often ineffective or impractical without prior knowl-
edge of where value diversity is semantically meaningful. In this setting, effective tracking would need to target
specific Fiber initialization and execution routines that propagate the stack size parameter.
   1
       https://github.com/php/php-src/issues/20483


                                                               5
    twose (Jun 3, 2021):

        If a large chunk of memory were allocated on the stack it could exceed the size of a single page.
    I think what we need to guard against is recursive calls rather than big memory on the stack, and I did not see the code for multi-
    page memory protection in other coroutine projects. Maybe you can specify the reference of this idea, it is new to me. The cost
    of protecting multiple pages is far greater than the benefit, and we will never know how much is appropriate. Perhaps the most
    common case is to alloc a large buffer on the stack, although it may push the pointer far beyond the stack boundary; we always
    write from the beginning, don’t we?
    About symmetric and asymmetric, maybe you are entangled in these concepts, I only focused on its actual behaviour, I think
    these concepts are defined based on the behaviour of specified technological. I don’t quite understand what you are worried about.
    And Swoole has never stated what kind of model its coroutine is, it do not care.



Figure 1: Code review discussion on fiber stack protection strategies in PHP. Underlines highlight developer
reasoning and domain knowledge expressed during the review.

                    EyeQ: Code Review-Guided Fuzzing

                          REVIEW                                    CODE                                         CODE                               FUZZ DRIVER
 Codebase              CLASSIFICATION                            LOCALIZATION                               INSTRUMENTATION                          SELECTION
                                                                                                                                                                     Annotation
                          Review                                                                                Function                             Callgraph     -aware fuzzer
                        consolidation                          Function(s)       Yes                         comprehension                          construction




                                                                                                                              Annotated functions
                                                                                        Related functions
                                                               in reviews?
                                              Secure reviews




                          Review
Pull request                                                        No                                        IJON macro                            Reachability
                        deduplication                                        Verifier
                                                                                                                selection                            Analysis
                                                                                                                                                                      IJON++
                                        Yes                    Codebase                                                                                             (AFL++ with
                           Security                                                                           IJON macro                                           IJON support)
                                                                analysis
                           related?                                                                             insertion


  Review
 comments


Figure 2: End-to-end workflow of code review-guided fuzzing. The pipeline transforms security-relevant
reviews into localized code annotations and uses annotation-aware fuzzing to guide exploration toward
vulnerability-prone program behaviors.


    Our approach addresses these challenges by systematically extracting semantic guidance from code review
discussions. In this example, review comments (shown in Figure 1) implicitly highlighted concerns about Fiber
stack sizing and safety assumptions, enabling identification of the relevant program locations. We leverage this
information to inject targeted annotations that track and preserve meaningful changes to the stack size parameter.
As a result, an annotation-aware fuzzer like IJON can generate inputs that trigger the stack overflow, leading to
the discovery of this vulnerability and many others. The following sections explain how these techniques work.


3     Code Review–Guided Fuzzing
Figure 2 presents the complete workflow of EyeQ, our novel code-review–guided fuzzing approach. The design
is modular and abstract, allowing it to be instantiated either by human analysts (denoted as EyeQHuman ) or by a
fully automated reasoning system based on large language models (denoted as EyeQLLM ), while sharing the same
underlying principles. The workflow operates within a standard development environment in which source code,
pull requests, and review discussions are available, regardless of whether the repository is public or private.
     Given a pull request that introduces a new feature or a bug fix and its associated review comments, EyeQ
consists of four stages that transform review feedback into annotated code suitable for fuzzing.
     In the first stage (Review Classification), a human analyst or an automated tool examines review comments to
determine whether any are security related. If such comments are identified, the workflow proceeds to the second


                                                                                  6
stage (Code Localization), which maps the selected comments to the corresponding regions of the codebase.
The third stage (Code Instrumentation) then selects suitable variables or expressions, determines appropriate
annotations (e.g., IJON annotations), and inserts them into the code.
     To ensure that the modified code is reachable–particularly in projects with multiple fuzz drivers–the work-
flow may optionally include fuzz driver reachability analysis. This analysis can be performed manually through
debugging and tracing or automatically using call-graph–based techniques.
     Finally, the annotated codebase is compiled and fuzzed using an annotation-aware fuzzer, such as IJON [2],
with an appropriate seed corpus under a standard fuzzing setup. The additional semantic signals introduced by
the annotations guide the fuzzer toward vulnerability-prone regions, increasing the likelihood of uncovering hard-
to-find bugs and vulnerabilities in areas that are of particular interest to developers.
     In the following subsections, we describe these stages in greater detail and demonstrate how they are applied
to uncover the vulnerability in the motivating example.

3.1      Stage 1: Review Classification
For each pull request under analysis, review comments may appear in multiple locations, including general discus-
sion threads, inline review comments attached to specific code changes, and formal review submissions. These
artifacts capture complementary forms of developer and reviewer reasoning, ranging from high-level design con-
cerns to line-level correctness checks and explicit acceptance or rejection decisions. In the case of a human analyst
(EyeQHuman ), all such comments must be read and interpreted manually. In contrast, for an automated workflow
such as EyeQLLM , these comments are first consolidated–and deduplicated when necessary–into a unified review
corpus, while preserving relevant metadata such as pull request identifiers, file paths, and diff context when avail-
able.

3.1.1      Principles of classifying reviews

To determine whether a review corpus contains security-related discussion and should therefore be marked as
security relevant, we follow the methodology proposed by Charoenwet et al. [3]. As observed by Charoenwet et al.
[3], reviewers may not always have suﬀicient security expertise to identify concrete vulnerabilities or articulate
explicit attack scenarios. Instead, they often discuss coding weaknesses that could potentially lead to security
issues. For example, reviewers may raise concerns about input validation, which can result in vulnerabilities
such as buffer overflows. Accordingly, a review is considered security related if reviewers explicitly mention
security vulnerabilities or their security consequences (e.g., when reviewers have security expertise), or if they
express concern about any of the 40 coding weaknesses listed in the widely used CWE-699 taxonomy2 , which
may indicate potential security issues.

3.1.2      Example

Following these principles to the motivating example, we identify the review shown in Figure 1 as security rel-
evant. In this review comment, reviewers debate how fibers should guard against stack exhaustion, contrasting
recursive call patterns with large on-stack allocations that could push the stack pointer far beyond the stack bound-
ary. Although framed as an implementation-level concern and without explicit mention of potential vulnerabili-
ties, the discussion implicitly describes a memory-safety risk consistent with Memory Buffer Errors (CWE-1218)
and, more specifically, an Out-of-Bounds Write (CWE-787).
   2
       https://cwe.mitre.org/data/definitions/699.html




                                                         7
  System role. You are a senior application security engineer reviewing developer comments in pull requests.
  Task. Given a code review comment and a compact list of CWE-699 upper categories, determine whether the comment is security relevant. If
  the comment is security relevant or potentially security relevant, select up to three relevant CWE upper categories and, when appropriate, identify
  candidate CWE subcategories.
  Few-shot guidance. Use annotated examples to calibrate decisions, especially for borderline or implicitly security-related comments: [Few-shot
  classification examples omitted for brevity]
  Decision principles.
  • Prioritize recall: if any plausible security or safety concern exists, prefer uncertain over no.
  • Do not require explicit vulnerability mentions; consider implicit risks such as memory safety, numeric errors, input validation, or privilege
    boundaries.
  • Restrict category selection to the provided CWE-699 upper categories.
  • Ground all decisions in concrete phrases drawn from the review comment.

  Output. Produce a structured classification indicating whether the comment is security relevant, the selected CWE upper categories (if any), and
  brief signals justifying the decision.



Figure 3: System prompt used for Stage 1, Call 1. Coarse-grained security-relevant review filtering in
EyeQLLM .

  System role. You are a senior application security engineer performing final classification of code review comments.
  Task. Given (i) a code review comment and (ii) a filtered CWE context pack containing only candidate CWE categories/subcategories, determine
  whether the comment indicates a security weakness. If yes, select the single most specific matching CWE subcategory from the provided context
  pack; otherwise, return security = no.
  Decision principles.
  • Use only the provided CWE context pack; do not use external knowledge or CWEs not present in the pack.
  • Prefer definition match (title + description) over keyword match.
  • Choose the most specific applicable CWE subcategory in the pack.
  • If the comment concerns readability, style, performance-only changes, or general refactoring with no plausible exploit/safety angle, output
    security = no.
  • When security = yes, the selected CWE subcategory must appear in the provided context pack.
  Rationale. Provide 1–3 sentences that cite concrete signals from the comment and connect them to the chosen CWE definition in the context pack.
  Output. Produce a structured result containing: (i) security (yes/no); (ii) the selected CWE subcategory (ID and title) if yes, otherwise null; and
  (iii) the rationale.



Figure 4: System prompt used for Stage 1, Call 2. Fine-grained CWE assignment using the filtered CWE
context pack in EyeQLLM .


3.1.3     Automation with LLM

In EyeQLLM , we automate the classification process by following the aforementioned principles and adopting a
two-stage classification approach with suitable prompt design. The first stage, using the prompt shown in Fig-
ure 3, performs coarse filtering and category selection: given a review comment and a compact list of CWE-699
categories, the model determines whether the comment is security relevant and, if so, identifies a small set of
candidate categories. This stage prioritizes recall and allows an explicit uncertain outcome to ensure that
borderline cases are retained for further analysis.
    The second stage (see the corresponding prompt in Figure 4) performs fine-grained classification. Using
only the CWE subcategories associated with the categories selected in the first stage, the model assigns a single,
most specific CWE to the comment or rejects it as non-security-related. By dynamically slicing the taxonomy
based on the first-stage output, this design reduces the context size by up to an order of magnitude while enabling
definition-based matching rather than relying on keyword heuristics.
    To enhance the LLM’s ability, these prompts are designed following the few-shot learning paradigm, using
examples collected from our human-based feasibility study of EyeQHuman . Further details are discussed in the

                                                                           8
answer to RQ1 in the evaluation section.

3.2     Stage 2: Code Localization
The input to the localization stage consists of one or more security-related review comments, the set of functions
modified by the corresponding pull request, and, when available, a coarse security classification in the form of
CWE subcategories derived from the previous stage. In this stage, the goal is to identify the functions related to
each security comment, while leaving fine-grained, line-level localization to Stage 3. Localization is fundamen-
tally a semantic matching problem between natural language and code, which makes it challenging in practice:
reviewers often describe behavioral concerns rather than explicitly naming functions, pull requests may modify
many functions simultaneously, and large codebases frequently rely on macros that obscure true function bound-
aries.

3.2.1    Principles of localizing code

When reviewers explicitly mention code locations–such as function names or line numbers, which is relatively
uncommon–this information can be used directly for localization. Otherwise, it is necessary to examine all rele-
vant code changes and apply logical reasoning, grounded in an understanding of the codebase and its semantics,
to identify the functions that correspond to the review comments. In the example below, we illustrate one such
instance of this reasoning, highlighting the advantage of human intelligence in the localization process. For LLM,
we can instill a similar capability through carefully designed few-shot examples.

3.2.2    Example

Applying these principles to the motivating example, we manually examined the code changes associated with
the pull request to identify the program logic responsible for enforcing fiber stack-size constraints. The review
discussion centered on how stack exhaustion is prevented and how stack-size limits derived from user-provided
configuration values are applied at runtime. This led us to OnUpdateFiberStackSize (in Zend/zen
d.c) as listed in Listing 3, the handler that parses the fiber.stack_size INI configuration and commits
the resulting value to the global fiber runtime state. This function represents the boundary at which untrusted
configuration input is translated into concrete stack-size parameters that govern subsequent fiber execution. Its
semantics therefore directly correspond to the reviewer’s concerns about whether large or malformed stack-size
values could violate stack-safety assumptions.

  1 // In Zend/zend.c: OnUpdateFiberStackSize()
  2 static ZEND_INI_MH(OnUpdateFiberStackSize)
  3 {
  4     if (new_value) {
  5         zend_long tmp = zend_ini_parse_quantity_warn(new_value, name);
  6         if (tmp < 0) {
  7              return FAILURE;
  8         }
  9         EG(fiber_stack_size) = tmp;
 10     }
 11     return SUCCESS;
 12 }



               Listing 3: Fiber stack-size validation and state update in OnUpdateFiberStackSize




                                                        9
  System role. You are a security code review analyzer localizing reviewer concerns to functions modified in a pull request (PHP codebase).
  Task. Given a code review comment and a list of candidate functions modified in the pull request (file paths and function names only), select the
  most likely function(s) the comment refers to. Return a short, ranked list. If no candidate can be justified, return an empty list.
  Few-shot guidance. Use annotated, project-specific localization examples to calibrate decisions, particularly when function ownership or invari-
  ants are implicit:
  [Few-shot localization examples omitted for brevity]
  Decision principles.
  • Choose only from the provided candidates; do not invent functions.
  • Prefer functions directly modified in the patch.
  • Prefer the function that owns the invariant or implements the fix, not merely where a bug manifests.
  • Ground reasoning in concrete phrases or behavioral cues from the review comment.
  • If no candidate can be confidently justified, abstain.
  Optional CWE hint (low weight). When available, CWE category, subcategory, and rationale may be provided as auxiliary context to narrow the
  search space. If the CWE hint conflicts with the review comment, the comment takes precedence.
  Confidence. Assign HIGH, MEDIUM, or LOW confidence to distinguish strong matches from ambiguous cases.

  Output. Produce a structured result containing a one-line description of the concern, a ranked list of candidate functions with justification (includ-
  ing rejected alternatives), an overall confidence level, and whether CWE context was used.



Figure 5: System prompt used for Stage 2, Step 1 candidate function selection using names and file paths in
EyeQLLM .


3.2.3    Automation with LLM

To automate this stage using an LLM in cases where functions are not explicitly mentioned, we decompose lo-
calization into two steps: candidate selection followed by code-diff verification. This design avoids a single
monolithic prompt, which would exceed context limits for large pull requests. The process begins with a coarse
candidate selection step, in which the LLM is asked to rank the most relevant functions among those modified in
the pull request. The prompt used for this step (Figure 5) includes only function names and file paths, deliberately
omitting code diffs to keep the context compact and scalable. The model is instructed to reason explicitly about
the reviewer’s concern, grounding its ranking in textual or behavioral cues and prioritizing the function that owns
the relevant invariant or implements the fix.
     When a CWE classification is available from Stage 1, we inject it into this prompt as a low-weight hint. Specifi-
cally, the CWE category, subcategory, and accompanying rationale are provided as auxiliary context, with explicit
instructions that the review comment takes precedence in the event of conflict. This design enables the model to
use CWE information to narrow the search space (e.g., by favoring resource-management or initialization-related
functions) while avoiding overfitting to potentially noisy classifications. The extended output schema records
whether the CWE context was actually used, enabling downstream analysis and ablation studies.
     Confidence levels are required to distinguish strong matches from ambiguous cases, and rejected candidates
must be justified to discourage superficial reasoning. These constraints collectively steer the LLM toward precise,
defensible localizations.
     Candidate selection alone is insuﬀicient, as function names can be misleading or may correspond to macros
or prototypes rather than concrete definitions. We therefore introduce a second LLM-guided verification step
that operates on the actual code diffs of the top-ranked candidates. The verification prompt (Figure 6) requires
the model to align the review comment with specific code changes, explicitly citing lines or patterns from the
diff that justify the localization. If none of the candidate diffs clearly matches the reviewer’s concern, the model
is instructed to abstain rather than force a selection. This verification step substantially reduces hallucinated
localizations and ensures that decisions are grounded in observable, source-level evidence rather than inferred
behavior.


                                                                           10
  System role. You are a security code review analyzer verifying candidate localizations using code diffs.
  Task. Given a review comment and diff snippets for the top-ranked candidate functions from Step 1, verify which function best matches the re-
  viewer’s concern. Select a function only if the diff provides concrete supporting evidence.
  Few-shot guidance. Use annotated, project-specific verification examples to calibrate how review comments align with concrete code changes:
  [Few-shot localization examples omitted for brevity]
  Decision principles.
  • Ground decisions strictly in actual code changes shown in the diff.
  • Cite the minimal diff line(s) that support the match.
  • Prefer the function being fixed over callers or unrelated helpers.
  • Do not infer behavior beyond what is visible in the diff.
  • If no diff clearly matches the review comment, abstain rather than forcing a selection.
  Confidence. Assign HIGH, MEDIUM, or LOW confidence based on the strength of the diff evidence.

  Output. Produce a structured result containing the ranked candidate(s), cited diff evidence supporting the choice, rejected alternatives with justifi-
  cation, and an overall confidence level.



Figure 6: System prompt used for Stage 2, Step 2 diff-based verification of localized functions in EyeQLLM .


3.3     Stage 3: Code Instrumentation
Once a target function is identified in Stage 2 based on the review comments, the next step is to identify logic-
relevant program elements (e.g., variables or expressions) and insert suitable IJON annotations to capture mean-
ingful state changes. This stage is the most challenging because it requires fine-grained code comprehension to
determine which elements influence the function’s control flow or key invariants highlighted in the review. It
also requires selecting appropriate IJON annotation macros that expose these semantics as informative feedback
signals during fuzzing.

3.3.1    Principles of instrumenting code

As IJON provides a variety of annotation macros, it is important to select those that align with the identified
program elements and the review comments so the resulting signals guide exploration toward states of interest
to reviewers. For example, IJON_MIN or IJON_DIST are suitable for detecting buffer-boundary issues,
IJON_BITS and IJON_MAX work well for integer-related issues, and IJON_STATE and IJON_CTX are
effective for capturing state-machine–related behaviors.

3.3.2    Example

Inspection of OnUpdateFiberStackSize shows that the handler has a single semantic responsibility: it
parses the user-provided INI string new_value (Listing 4, Line 4), rejects invalid negative inputs (Listing 4,
Lines 5–7), and commits the resulting numeric value to EG(fiber_stack_size) (Listing 4, Line 8). As
reflected in the discussion in Figure 1, the developer concern is not whether this setter executes, but which concrete
configuration values are realized at runtime, as these values determine subsequent fiber execution behavior.
     However, the control flow of the setter itself is largely invariant to the magnitude of the parsed value beyond
basic validation, making coverage-based feedback insuﬀicient for encouraging exploration of diverse configura-
tions. We therefore annotate the committed stack-size value with IJON_SET (Listing 4, Line 11), explicitly
exposing EG(fiber_stack_size) as a fuzzing state so that executions realizing distinct configuration
values are prioritized.




                                                                           11
  System role. You are an expert in AFL++ and IJON-guided fuzzing. Your task is to design high-quality IJON annotations for one C/C++ function
  from the PHP codebase using its implementation and associated code-review signals.
  Task. Given a function definition and related review comments, identify candidate locations within the function and propose IJON annotations that
  expose fragile invariants or security-relevant behaviors. Propose the top five annotation candidates (return fewer if fewer are justified).
  Few-shot guidance. Use embedded, project-specific few-shot examples to calibrate macro selection, variable choice, and anchor placement:
  [Few-shot IJON annotation examples omitted for brevity]
  IJON primitives. Select appropriate IJON macros from the available primitive set to expose security-relevant behaviors and fragile invariants,
  guided by the function logic, review comments, CWE context, and few-shot examples.
  [Available IJON primitives omitted for brevity]
  Hard rules.
  • Do not use line numbers; specify insertion points using anchors.
  • Each annotation must include a macro, compilable code snippet, insertion description, pre-anchor, post-anchor, and rationale.
  • Wrap injected code with #ifdef _USE_IJON guards.
  • Do not introduce new headers or external symbols.
  • Prefer annotations aligned with reviewer concerns and fragile invariants.
  Anchoring requirement. Anchors must be verbatim substrings occurring before and after the intended insertion location. This ensures robustness
  to formatting changes and minor patch drift while enabling precise placement.
  Output. Produce a structured JSON object containing up to five IJON annotation candidates, each with anchors and a short rationale linking the
  annotation to review signals.



Figure 7: System prompt used to generate anchored IJON annotation candidates for a single function in
EyeQLLM .


  1 static ZEND_INI_MH(OnUpdateFiberStackSize)
  2 {
  3     if (new_value) {
  4         zend_long tmp = zend_ini_parse_quantity_warn(new_value, name);
  5         if (tmp < 0) {
  6              return FAILURE;
  7         }
  8         EG(fiber_stack_size) = tmp;
  9
 10              #ifdef _USE_IJON
 11              IJON_SET(EG(fiber_stack_size)); // TRACKS EXTREME VALUE
 12              #endif
 13          } else {
 14              EG(fiber_stack_size) = ZEND_FIBER_DEFAULT_C_STACK_SIZE;
 15          }
 16          return SUCCESS;
 17   }

          Listing 4: Adding IJON annotation to observe fiber stack-size updates in OnUpdateFiberStackSize


3.3.3     Automation with LLM

We design a prompt (Figure 7) that first asks the LLM to understand the target function and identify candidate
locations for annotations. Since LLMs are generally effective at code comprehension, particularly at the function
level, this part of the prompt is relatively straightforward.
    Selecting appropriate IJON annotation macros, however, is more challenging. To address this, we apply
several strategies. First, as shown in Figure 8 we provide the CWE IDs selected in Stage 1, allowing the LLM
to choose suitable macros based on the CWE descriptions, review comments, and few-shot examples. Second,


                                                                         12
    CWE classification hint. When available, the following CWE context is injected into the IJON prompt as auxiliary guidance (low–medium
    weight):
    • Category: <category_title> (CWE-<category_id>)
    • Subcategory: <subcategory_title> (CWE-<subcategory_id>)
    • Rationale: <classification rationale>

    Usage guidance. Use the CWE information only to inform macro selection and variable choice. If the CWE hint conflicts with the review com-
    ments, the comments take precedence.



Figure 8: CWE classification injected as a soft prior to guide IJON annotation selection in EyeQLLM .


we instruct the LLM to propose multiple annotations–up to five candidates–to increase the likelihood of covering
relevant program behaviors.
    Notably, the prompt asks the LLM to propose anchor points using verbatim substrings occurring before and
after the intended insertion location, rather than line numbers. This approach makes annotation placement robust
to formatting differences and minor patch drift, while still allowing precise insertion at the intended program
point.


4       Implementation
Stage 1: Review classification. In Stage 1, we retrieve and aggregate review comments from GitHub pull re-
quests, filtering and deduplicating them into a unified corpus. We then apply a two-stage LLM pipeline to classify
comments for security relevance and assign CWE categories. We implemented this stage across six Python mod-
ules (4,334 LoC) for retrieval and 2,506 LoC for classification, totaling 6,840 LoC.

Stage 2: Code localization. In Stage 2, we map security-relevant review comments to concrete functions in the
codebase using an LLM-assisted localization pipeline. We systematically verify candidate functions to ensure
correctness. The Stage 2 implementation totals 10,220 LoC.

Stage 3: Code instrumentation. In Stage 3, we convert localized findings into executable fuzzing guidance by
generating and injecting IJON annotations into the target functions. We perform safety checks to ensure syntactic
correctness, variable-scope validity, and duplicate-free insertion. The instrumentation pipeline comprises 5,080
LoC.

Fuzzing infrastructure. We integrate the annotated code into a containerized AFL++-based fuzzing setup that
supports parallel campaigns, crash replay, and post-fuzz triage. We also port IJON to AFL++ and modify it
to use a dedicated bitmap for annotations, reducing collisions and improving fuzzing performance345 . The
changes to the fuzzer itself comprise 2,866 LoC, while the surrounding infrastructure–including scripts and
Docker configurations–totals 6,537 LoC.




    3
      https://github.com/AFLplusplus/AFLplusplus/pull/2540
    4
      https://github.com/AFLplusplus/AFLplusplus/pull/2542
    5
      https://github.com/AFLplusplus/AFLplusplus/pull/2546


                                                                         13
5     Evaluation
We evaluate EyeQ’s workflow along three dimensions: (1) whether a human analyst can follow the workflow to
produce useful annotations, (2) whether an LLM can automate the workflow end to end, and (3) whether the
automated system generalizes to newer, unseen review data.

5.1    Research Questions
To this end, we formulate three research questions.

      • RQ1: Can a human analyst following the proposed workflow produce annotations that improve fuzzing
        effectiveness? This research question evaluates the soundness of the proposed workflow itself. This serves
        as a baseline and demonstrates that the workflow is practically usable and effective.

      • RQ2: How effective is the LLM-based system in following the workflow and generating useful annota-
        tions? This question evaluates the ability of EyeQLLM to automate the workflow. Using the same dataset
        as RQ1, we compare fuzzing outcomes and analyze the effectiveness of the system at different stages of
        the workflow.

      • RQ3: Does the LLM-based system generalize to unseen code reviews from the same project? To avoid
        overfitting of EyeQLLM to the dataset used in RQ1 and RQ2, we evaluate it on a separate set of code reviews
        from the same software project. This question examines whether the system maintains effectiveness on
        previously unseen reviews.

5.2    Experimental Setup
For RQ1 and RQ2, we evaluate EyeQHuman and EyeQLLM , respectively, using a dataset of labeled review com-
ments from 2011 to 2022 drawn from a popular PHP project introduced by Charoenwet et al. [27]. The dataset
contains 240 review comments, evenly split between 120 security-related and 120 security-irrelevant comments.
We randomly select three comments from each subset as few-shot examples for EyeQLLM , leaving 234 comments
for evaluation. This dataset provides an established ground truth for the review classification stage of the workflow,
which is critical for all downstream tasks.
     To assess fuzzing effectiveness, we compare fuzzing outcomes on EyeQ-annotated code under both setups
(EyeQHuman and EyeQLLM ). All experiments use IJON++, a recent IJON implementation that we ported to AFL++
and subsequently merged into the upstream AFL++ codebase, and are compared against standard AFL++ with
IJON disabled.
     For RQ1, our first author–a second-year PhD student with experience in fuzzing and program analysis but no
prior familiarity with the PHP codebase–manually follows the workflow starting from Stage 2 (Code Localization)
and Stage 3 (Code Instrumentation) to produce annotated source code for fuzzing with IJON. We omit Stage 1
(Review Classification) since the selected dataset already provides manually curated classification results. Stage
4 (Fuzz Driver Selection) is not evaluated because the main fuzz driver of the PHP project is used.
     For RQ2, we evaluate EyeQLLM across all stages of the workflow, except Stage 4, which is also skipped as
in RQ1. This includes Stage 1 (Review Classification), and we compare the results against the human-generated
annotations and fuzzing outcomes from RQ1.
     For RQ3, we evaluate EyeQLLM on recent artifacts from the PHP project collected between September 2025
and December 2025. This dataset includes 318 pull requests (PRs) and 965 review comments. We compare
EyeQLLM & IJON++ against AFL++ in terms of bug-finding effectiveness.
     All experiments are conducted on identical virtual machines to ensure reproducibility and control for hardware-
induced variability. Each VM is equipped with 32 virtual CPU cores, 128 GB of RAM, and 1 TB of local storage,


                                                         14
running Ubuntu 22.04 LTS. We use the gemini-2.5-flash model with a fixed configuration across all exper-
iments, limiting the maximum output length to 5,000 tokens to bound response verbosity and ensure consistent
downstream parsing. No fine-tuning or task-specific adaptation is applied; all interactions rely solely on prompt
engineering and the few-shot examples described earlier.

5.3      RQ1: EyeQHuman vs AFL++
From the 117 human-labeled security-related review comments in the selected dataset, the first author followed
the EyeQ workflow to manually localize code and annotate functions. After the code localization stage, 37 reviews
were mapped to 37 corresponding functions, resulting in a localization rate of 31.6%. The remaining 80 reviews
could not be mapped for two primary reasons. First, due to the size and complexity of the PHP codebase–with
numerous submodules and intricate logic–the author was uncertain in many cases. This highlights the limitations
of manual analysis and motivates the automated approach implemented in EyeQLLM . Second, several reviews
referred to test files rather than source files. After the code instrumentation stage, the author successfully inserted
IJON macros into all 37 functions, spanning 34 commits, and subsequently fuzzed them using IJON++.
    Running IJON++ on the 34 annotated code commits for 24 hours each uncovered 31 unique crashes (includ-
ing the motivating example) after deduplication6 . In contrast, AFL++, executed on the original code without
annotations, found only 7 unique crashes, six of which were also discovered by IJON++ on the annotated code.
Notably, AFL++ failed to detect the bug highlighted in the motivating example.
    It is worth noting that these unique crashes were counted based on the old commits in the review dataset. We
were therefore interested in whether any of these crashes remain triggerable in the newest version of PHP at the
time of our evaluation. We first re-ran the 31 crash-triggering inputs on the latest PHP release and observed that
only 2 of them still persisted. However, this does not necessarily mean that the bugs associated with the remaining
crashes have been fixed, since new features and code changes between the old and current versions could affect
control and data flow, altering the originally crash-triggering inputs. To confirm this and further investigate the
impact of our findings, we ported the annotations from the old versions to the newest PHP version and performed
fuzzing with IJON++. With a single fuzzing instance running for four months, our experiments produced 41
previously unknown bugs; all were reported and confirmed by PHP project maintainers, with 27 of them fixed.
    These bugs span a wide range of PHP subsystems, including hash table operations, object handling, fibers,
garbage collection, configuration parsing, and the Zend virtual machine. Their concrete manifestations vary
widely–from use‑after‑free and null‑pointer dereference to stack exhaustion and latent state‑consistency violations–
highlighting diverse classes of interpreter errors that can lead to memory corruption or crashes. Detailed bug
descriptions are provided in Table 3 in Appendix B.
    This setup was used to assess whether the workflow remains tractable when multiple independent review-
derived signals are present, not to suggest that aggregating annotations improves bug-finding effectiveness. The
vulnerabilities discussed above are attributable to individual review signals, and fuzzing each localized region in
isolation does not necessarily yield additional bugs. We combine annotations here for methodological reasons: to
show that the workflow can accommodate multiple, independent review-guided annotations without interference,
while preserving a clear correspondence between reviewer intent and the behaviors exercised during fuzzing.

   Finding 1

  Humans can successfully follow the EyeQ workflow to extract insights from code reviews of the PHP code-
  base and translate them into annotations, enabling the discovery of 77% more bugs compared to annotation-
  unaware fuzzing. However, humans face significant challenges in comprehending a large codebase and pro-
  cessing a large volume of code reviews, failing in 80 out of 117 cases (68.4%). This limitation underscores
  the need for a more scalable, automated approach.

   6
       Deduplication is based on crash call stacks and crash types, following common practice


                                                                    15
5.4     RQ2: EyeQLLM vs EyeQHuman
We next compare the LLM and human analysts across the full workflow and then drill down into per-stage agree-
ments and disagreements.

5.4.1   Per-Stage Comparison

We first compare the performance of the LLM and humans at each stage of the EyeQ workflow. To ensure a fair and
controlled comparison, we isolate each stage of the review-guided fuzzing process and apply both approaches to
the same intermediate artifacts (234 original review comments, 117 security-related comments after Stage 1, and
37 human-localized functions after Stage 2). At each stage, we measure the agreement and divergence between
EyeQLLM and the human judgments in EyeQHuman . We present the results in the EyeQ workflow order, beginning
with review classification and proceeding through localization, annotation selection and injection, and fuzzing.

LLM vs Human in Review Classification (Stage 1). Of the 234 review comments in the dataset, the two ap-
proaches agree on 194 cases (82.9%), including 106 comments that both identify as security-relevant. Figure 9
also illustrates the remaining disagreements, which follow two patterns.
    In 29 cases, the LLM flags comments as security-relevant that humans label as non-security. These comments
often contain technically suggestive terms such as overflow or type error, which EyeQLLM conservatively inter-
prets as potential vulnerability indicators, even when the reviewer’s intent reflects a feature request or a general
code-quality discussion. This behavior reflects a deliberate design choice that favors high recall, ensuring that
potentially relevant signals are not prematurely discarded. Because EyeQLLM is fully automated and scalable, this
design allows uncertain cases to be carried forward to subsequent stages.




                               Human       11           106          29     LLM




Figure 9: Agreements and disagreements between human analysts and the LLM in security-related comments.

    LLM fails to identify 11 comments that humans classify as security-relevant. Manual inspection shows that
these cases typically involve subtle or context-dependent security concerns, such as nuanced discussions of certifi-
cate validation semantics, where the security implication is implicit rather than explicitly framed in vulnerability-
oriented language. In several instances, LLM recognizes relevant concepts but is constrained by classification
requirements, leading to conservative rejection. We provide excerpts illustrating typical points of divergence
between human analysts and LLM in Section A.1 in Appendix A.

LLM vs Human in Code Localization (Stage 2). As reported in the answer to RQ1, the human (our first author)
successfully localized code at the function level for only 41 out of 117 security-related comments. We randomly
select 4 of these comments as few-shot examples for prompt construction and use the remaining 37 comments
as ground truth to evaluate the LLM’s ability to localize code from review discussions. The results show that
the human and the LLM agree on 18 review-comment–function pairs (48.6%) and disagree in the remaining 19
cases.




                                                        16
       Human           LLM                  EyeQHuman        EyeQLLM
                                                                                EyeQLLM         AFL++
                                             7          18             23
      16         15          9                           5
                                                                                 21         9         2
                                                    1         1
                                                         0
                                                        AFL++


    (a) Stage 3 (isolated): human vs.     (b) End-to-end: human vs. LLM vs.    (c) PHP 2025: LLM vs. AFL++
  LLM annotations (fixed localization).      AFL++ unique-crash overlap.            unique-crash overlap.


Figure 10: Overlap of unique crashes discovered under different fuzzing configurations. (a) Stage 3
(annotation-isolated): crashes found using human-authored IJON annotations versus LLM-generated IJON
annotations with fixed ground-truth localized functions, showing partial overlap and distinct crash sets. (b)
End-to-end comparison: overlap of unique crashes across EyeQHuman , EyeQLLM , and baseline AFL++ when
running the full EyeQ fuzzing pipeline. (c) RQ3 (PHP 2025): direct comparison between EyeQLLM and AFL++
on a new, unseen PHP dataset (September–December 2025), showing a larger set of crashes unique to EyeQLLM
with a smaller shared subset.


    Localization disagreements follow several patterns. First, the LLM may select a function that is conceptually
related, such as choosing a verification routine instead of the corresponding creation routine. Second, when multi-
ple functions implement nearly identical logic (e.g., encoding conversions with shared buffer-handling patterns),
the LLM may select the wrong variant despite correctly identifying the underlying security concern. Third, when
review comments explicitly discuss both a problematic construct and its replacement, the LLM may focus on the
source of the issue rather than the function being introduced or modified. Examples of these disagreements can
be found in Section A.2 in Appendix A.

LLM vs Human in Code Instrumentation (Stage 3). To compare with human performance, we select the 37
functions identified by the human in Stage 2 and have the LLM automatically annotate them with IJON macros.
Out of 37 evaluated cases, EyeQ produces annotations that align with human intent in 26 cases (70.3%).
    At this stage, disagreements reflect differences in which semantic state is surfaced to the fuzzer, rather
than failures in identifying relevant code or review context. In agreement cases, LLM consistently exposes the
same security-critical program state as human, including signature configuration flags, type states, nullability
conditions, and resource lifecycle transitions. These annotations encode the same invariants and assumptions
that human reviewers emphasize during security code review. Examples of these disagreements can be found in
Section A.3 in Appendix A.
    Based on the annotations produced at this stage, we ran IJON++ to fuzz 34 commits for 24 hours each using
the same setup as in RQ1. IJON++ discovered 24 bugs, of which 15 were also found in RQ1 using human-written
annotations, while 9 were discovered only with LLM-generated annotations, as illustrated in Figure 10a.

   Finding 2

  The per-stage comparison shows that the LLM’s performance is largely comparable to that of humans in
  review classification (Stage 1), achieving 82.9% correctness, and in code instrumentation (Stage 3), with
  70.3% correctness. However, it performs substantially worse in Stage 2 (Code Localization), with only
  48.6% accuracy, which likely contributes to its weaker final fuzzing results (24 versus 31 bugs found).



                                                             17
5.4.2    End-to-End Comparison

To complete RQ2, we evaluate EyeQLLM against EyeQHuman in an end-to-end setting. Starting from the 234 review
comments in the selected dataset, EyeQLLM automatically classifies the comments, identifying 135 as security-
related, and successfully localizes code for 101 comments, achieving a substantially higher localization rate than
humans (74.8% vs. 31.6%). These comments are mapped to 117 functions, into which EyeQLLM subsequently
inserts 520 annotations. Finally, it fuzzes the resulting code across 99 commits for 24 hours each.
    As shown in Figure 10b, the results demonstrate that EyeQLLM significantly outperforms EyeQHuman , discov-
ering 47 bugs compared to 31. This improvement can be attributed to the substantially higher localization rate
achieved by EyeQLLM , enabled by its scalable code comprehension capabilities, which allow more functions to
be instrumented and fuzzed.

    Finding 3

    Although the LLM performs worse than humans in terms of per-stage accuracy, EyeQLLM outperforms
    EyeQHuman in the end-to-end setting due to its scalable code comprehension capabilities, which lead to higher
    localization rates and the insertion of more annotations.


5.5     RQ3: EyeQLLM Performance on a New Dataset
In this research question, we evaluate the performance of EyeQLLM on a previously unseen dataset of recent
PHP code reviews, without comparison to human performance. This experiment assesses whether EyeQLLM
generalizes beyond the manually curated dataset used in RQ1 and RQ2 when applied to large-scale, real-world
review data.
    We focus on PHP code reviews from 2025, specifically from September to December. During this 4-month
period, we collected 965 review comments from 318 pull requests.
    EyeQLLM classified 445 of these comments as security-related and localized the corresponding functions. It
then injected IJON annotations into the localized functions and aggregated them into 62 commits for fuzzing with
IJON++, compared against AFL++.
    The campaign uncovered 30 distinct crashes after deduplication. Among these, two correspond to previously
unknown bugs in the PHP codebase at the time of discovery. The remaining crashes either overlap with bugs
discovered in RQ1 or had been fixed previously. In comparison, AFL++, run under the same setup but without
annotations, exposed only 11 unique crashes. Detailed results are summarized in Table 2.

    Finding 4

    EyeQLLM is effective at finding bugs in an unseen PHP dataset and again outperforms annotation-unaware
    fuzzing by 2.7× (30 vs. 11).



6     Related Work
Recent work on fuzzing has improved the scale and effectiveness of coverage-guided approaches through ad-
vances in mutation strategies, corpus management, and execution throughput [1, 12–14, 28]. While these tech-
niques make fuzzing practical at scale, they also reveal the limitations of conventional coverage signals in guiding
exploration toward deep, semantically meaningful program states.
    A complementary line of research focuses on richer feedback signals, including value- and state-aware in-
strumentation that captures progress beyond edge coverage [15, 16, 29]. These approaches demonstrate that
incorporating semantic cues into a fuzzer’s objectives can drive exploration into regions that would otherwise
appear saturated under standard coverage metrics.


                                                         18
    Human-in-the-loop fuzzing [2, 19–21] highlights the value of developer insight, showing that manual guidance–
through grammars, rules, or interactive steering–can improve exploration. Prior techniques, however, typically
require explicit human effort during fuzzing. EyeQ differs by extracting guidance from artifacts already produced
during normal development, avoiding additional manual effort during fuzzing runs.
    Directed fuzzing aims to prioritize inputs that exercise specific code regions or vulnerabilities, improving
eﬀiciency over traditional coverage-guided approaches. Popular directed fuzzers, such as AFLGo [30], guide
mutations toward user-specified targets using static analysis and distance metrics. EyeQ differs by indirectly
directing exploration through annotations: annotated functions are preferentially fuzzed, increasing the likelihood
that test inputs exercise these security-relevant areas.
    Finally, research on code reviews has shown that review discussions encode valuable reasoning about cor-
rectness and risk, even when not explicitly framed as vulnerability reports [27]. EyeQ leverages this insight by
transforming review signals into concrete instrumentation, bridging review-time knowledge with test-time fuzzing
to improve bug-finding effectiveness.


7    Conclusions
This paper presents EyeQ, a workflow that transforms code review discussions into annotation-aware fuzzing
guidance. We view it as an opening gambit in leveraging developer insights. Our results are encouraging but not
a panacea—the annotations appear to improve quality of fuzzing through an improved corpus without requiring
substantial human effort. Yet, we do not yet actively direct the fuzzer toward the program states implicated by
these annotations, as done by directed fuzzing approaches such as AFLGo [30]. This leaves ample room for
improvement. Nonetheless it is our view that the work is instructional and provides stable ground on which to
begin a more concerted chase of code’s dragons Π.


Ethical Considerations
This work analyzes only publicly available code-review artifacts and source-code changes. When our experi-
ments surfaced potential security-relevant issues, we followed responsible disclosure practices by notifying the
appropriate project maintainers privately (or via the project’s preferred security channel), sharing minimal proof-
of-concept details needed to reproduce the issue, and allowing reasonable time for triage and fixes before any
public discussion. Our fuzzing and instrumentation were only performed in controlled environments to avoid
impacting production systems.


Open Science
We will open-source the accompanying code upon acceptance of the paper to facilitate further research in this
direction.


Acknowledgement
Shaanan Cohney and Van-Thuan Pham were supported by two Australian Research Council’s Discovery Early
Career Researcher Award (DECRA) projects (DE260100249 and DE230100473). We thank Google Cloud for
providing research credits to partially conduct our experiments.




                                                        19
References
 [1]   Valentin JM Manès, HyungSeok Han, Choongwoo Han, Sang Kil Cha, Manuel Egele, Edward J Schwartz,
       and Maverick Woo. “The art, science, and engineering of fuzzing: A survey”. In: IEEE Transactions on
       Software Engineering 47.11 (2019), pp. 2312–2331 (cit. on pp. 1, 18).
 [2]   Cornelius Aschermann, Sergej Schumilo, Ali Abbasi, and Thorsten Holz. “Ijon: Exploring deep state
       spaces via fuzzing”. In: 2020 IEEE Symposium on Security and Privacy (SP). IEEE. 2020, pp. 1597–
       1612 (cit. on pp. 2–4, 7, 19).
 [3]   Wachiraphan Charoenwet, Patanamon Thongtanunam, Van-Thuan Pham, and Christoph Treude. “An em-
       pirical study of static analysis tools for secure code review”. In: Proceedings of the 33rd ACM SIGSOFT
       international symposium on software testing and analysis. 2024, pp. 691–703 (cit. on pp. 2, 4, 7).
 [4]   Andrea Fioraldi, Dominik Maier, Heiko Eißfeldt, and Marc Heuse. “{AFL++}: Combining incremental
       steps of fuzzing research”. In: 14th USENIX workshop on offensive technologies (WOOT 20). 2020 (cit.
       on p. 3).
 [5]   Andrea Fioraldi, Dominik Christian Maier, Dongjia Zhang, and Davide Balzarotti. “Libafl: A framework to
       build modular and reusable fuzzers”. In: Proceedings of the 2022 ACM SIGSAC Conference on Computer
       and Communications Security. 2022, pp. 1051–1065 (cit. on p. 3).
 [6]   Jonathan Metzman, Abhishek Arya, Oliver Chang, and Kostya Serebryany. OSS-Fuzz — Continuous
       Fuzzing for Open Source Software. https://opensource.googleblog.com/2017/05/oss-fuzz-five-months-
       later-and.html. Google Open Source Blog, Accessed: 2025-10-10. 2017 (cit. on p. 3).
 [7]   Roberto Baldoni, Emilio Coppa, Daniele Cono D’elia, Camil Demetrescu, and Irene Finocchi. “A survey
       of symbolic execution techniques”. In: ACM Computing Surveys (CSUR) 51.3 (2018), pp. 1–39 (cit. on
       p. 3).
 [8]   Wentao Gao, Van-Thuan Pham, Dongge Liu, Oliver Chang, Toby Murray, and Benjamin IP Rubinstein.
       “Beyond the coverage plateau: A comprehensive study of fuzz blockers (registered report)”. In: Proceed-
       ings of the 2nd International Fuzzing Workshop. 2023, pp. 47–55 (cit. on p. 3).
 [9]   Domagoj Babić, Stefan Bucur, Yaohui Chen, Franjo Ivančić, Tim King, Markus Kusano, Caroline Lemieux,
       László Szekeres, and Wei Wang. “Fudge: fuzz driver generation at scale”. In: Proceedings of the 2019
       27th ACM Joint Meeting on European Software Engineering Conference and Symposium on the Foun-
       dations of Software Engineering. 2019, pp. 975–985 (cit. on p. 3).
[10]   Kyriakos Ispoglou, Daniel Austin, Vishwath Mohan, and Mathias Payer. “{FuzzGen}: Automatic fuzzer
       generation”. In: 29th USENIX Security Symposium (USENIX Security 20). 2020, pp. 2271–2287 (cit. on
       p. 3).
[11]   Peng Chen, Yuxuan Xie, Yunlong Lyu, Yuxiao Wang, and Hao Chen. “Hopper: Interpretative fuzzing for
       libraries”. In: Proceedings of the 2023 ACM SIGSAC Conference on Computer and Communications
       Security. 2023, pp. 1600–1614 (cit. on p. 3).
[12]   Van-Thuan Pham, Marcel Böhme, Andrew E Santosa, Alexandru Răzvan Căciulescu, and Abhik Roychoud-
       hury. “Smart greybox fuzzing”. In: IEEE Transactions on Software Engineering 47.9 (2019), pp. 1980–
       1997 (cit. on pp. 3, 18).
[13]   Cornelius Aschermann, Tommaso Frassetto, Thorsten Holz, Patrick Jauernig, Ahmad-Reza Sadeghi, and
       Daniel Teuchert. “NAUTILUS: Fishing for deep bugs with grammars.” In: NDSS. Vol. 19. 2019, p. 337
       (cit. on pp. 3, 18).
[14]   Cornelius Aschermann, Sergej Schumilo, Tim Blazytko, Robert Gawlik, and Thorsten Holz. “REDQUEEN:
       Fuzzing with Input-to-State Correspondence.” In: NDSS. Vol. 19. 2019, pp. 1–15 (cit. on pp. 3, 18).

                                                     20
[15]   Shuitao Gan, Chao Zhang, Peng Chen, Bodong Zhao, Xiaojun Qin, Dong Wu, and Zuoning Chen. “{GREYONE}:
       Data flow sensitive fuzzing”. In: 29th USENIX security symposium (USENIX Security 20). 2020, pp. 2577–
       2594 (cit. on pp. 3, 18).
[16]   Andrea Fioraldi, Daniele Cono D’Elia, and Davide Balzarotti. “The use of likely invariants as feedback
       for fuzzers”. In: 30th USENIX Security Symposium (USENIX Security 21). 2021, pp. 2829–2846 (cit. on
       pp. 3, 18).
[17]   Dongdong She, Abhishek Shah, and Suman Jana. “Effective seed scheduling for fuzzing with graph cen-
       trality analysis”. In: 2022 IEEE Symposium on Security and Privacy (SP). IEEE. 2022, pp. 2194–2211
       (cit. on p. 3).
[18]   Marcel Böhme, Valentin JM Manès, and Sang Kil Cha. “Boosting fuzzer eﬀiciency: An information theo-
       retic perspective”. In: Proceedings of the 28th ACM Joint Meeting on European Software Engineering
       Conference and Symposium on the Foundations of Software Engineering. 2020, pp. 678–689 (cit. on
       p. 3).
[19]   Yan Shoshitaishvili, Michael Weissbacher, Lukas Dresel, Christopher Salls, Ruoyu Wang, Christopher
       Kruegel, and Giovanni Vigna. “Rise of the hacrs: Augmenting autonomous cyber reasoning systems with
       human assistance”. In: Proceedings of the 2017 ACM SIGSAC Conference on Computer and Commu-
       nications Security. 2017, pp. 347–362 (cit. on pp. 3, 19).
[20]   Haoran Fang, Kaikai Zhang, Donghui Yu, and Yuanyuan Zhang. “DDGF: Dynamic Directed Greybox
       Fuzzing with Path Profiling”. In: Proceedings of the 33rd ACM SIGSOFT International Symposium on
       Software Testing and Analysis. 2024, pp. 832–843 (cit. on pp. 3, 19).
[21]   Wentao Gao, Renata Borovica-Gajic, Sang Kil Cha, Tian Qiu, and Van-Thuan Pham. “InsightQL: Advanc-
       ing Human-Assisted Fuzzing with a Unified Code Database and Parameterized Query Interface”. In: arXiv
       preprint arXiv:2510.04835 (2025) (cit. on pp. 3, 19).
[22]   Alberto Bacchelli and Christian Bird. “Expectations, outcomes, and challenges of modern code review”.
       In: 2013 35th International Conference on Software Engineering (ICSE). IEEE. 2013, pp. 712–721 (cit.
       on p. 4).
[23]   Michael Fagan. “Design and code inspections to reduce errors in program development”. In: Software
       pioneers: contributions to software engineering. Springer, 2011, pp. 575–607 (cit. on p. 4).
[24]   Peter C Rigby and Christian Bird. “Convergent contemporary software peer review practices”. In: Proceed-
       ings of the 2013 9th joint meeting on foundations of software engineering. 2013, pp. 202–212 (cit. on
       p. 4).
[25]   Mika V Mäntylä and Casper Lassenius. “What types of defects are really discovered in code reviews?” In:
       IEEE Transactions on Software Engineering 35.3 (2008), pp. 430–448 (cit. on p. 4).
[26]   Vipin Balachandran. “Reducing human effort and improving quality in peer code reviews using automatic
       static analysis and reviewer recommendation”. In: 2013 35th International Conference on Software En-
       gineering (ICSE). IEEE. 2013, pp. 931–940 (cit. on p. 4).
[27]   Wachiraphan Charoenwet, Patanamon Thongtanunam, Van-Thuan Pham, and Christoph Treude. “Toward
       effective secure code reviews: an empirical study of security-related coding weaknesses”. In: Empirical
       Software Engineering 29.4 (2024), p. 88 (cit. on pp. 14, 19).
[28]   Anshunkang Zhou, Heqing Huang, and Charles Zhang. “KRAKEN: Program-Adaptive Parallel Fuzzing”.
       In: Proceedings of the ACM on Software Engineering 2.ISSTA (2025), pp. 274–296 (cit. on p. 18).
[29]   Van-Thuan Pham, Marcel Böhme, and Abhik Roychoudhury. “Aflnet: A greybox fuzzer for network pro-
       tocols”. In: 2020 IEEE 13th International Conference on Software Testing, Validation and Verification
       (ICST). IEEE. 2020, pp. 460–465 (cit. on p. 18).

                                                      21
[30]   Marcel Böhme, Van-Thuan Pham, Manh-Dung Nguyen, and Abhik Roychoudhury. “Directed greybox
       fuzzing”. In: Proceedings of the 2017 ACM SIGSAC conference on computer and communications
       security. 2017, pp. 2329–2344 (cit. on p. 19).


A      Detailed Discussion
We provide some additional detail that may be of interest and illustrative to those seeking a deeper understanding
of the interaction between code review commentary and the relevant code (and bugs).

A.1    Classification
The following excerpts illustrate typical points of divergence between human analysts and EyeQ:

  “It would be great if we could warn on overflow and on truncation to 32-bit. De-
  tecting overflow is pretty simple.”


  “It seems to be a type error for me.”

    In both cases above, EyeQ classifies the comment as security-relevant due to the presence of vulnerability-
associated terminology, while human analysts interpret the discussion as non-security feature requests or general
observations.

  “Two general notes: I don’t think we should modify the signature of
  set_ssl…Probably we should land something similar to the patch proposed…to al-
  low disabling certificate validation…Does this completely turn off verification of
  the host cert, or does it just disable checking the CN?”

     In this case, the human analyst identifies a clear security concern related to SSL/TLS certificate verification
semantics, while EyeQ fails to classify the comment as security-relevant due to limitations imposed by its clas-
sification constraints. Taken together, these examples show that EyeQ’s review signal extraction closely mirrors
human judgment at the point where developers decide whether a discussion warrants security attention.

A.2    Localization
The following example illustrates a representative case of semantically close but incorrect localization:

  “I agree that this change makes sense, but the internal hashes do not provide
  any security, since anybody who is able to tamper with the phar can easily mod-
  ify the hashes as well – the internal hash only shields against accidental cor-
  ruption of the phar. Only an external hash can provide security…Properly secur-
  ing phars would require something like phar.require_signature, i.e. enforcing
  the phar to have an OpenSSL signature; and even then proper signature verifica-
  tion would be required.”

    In this case, LLM correctly identifies the discussion as concerning phar signature security and selects phar_
verify_signature, while the human ground truth localizes the change to phar_create_signature.
Both functions operate within the same security-critical subsystem, and the review comment itself discusses both
creation and verification semantics, making the distinction inherently ambiguous.




                                                        22
A.3   Code Instrumentation
Example: Signature Security (Semantic Match) The following review explicitly argues that internal hashes
do not provide security guarantees and that cryptographic signature enforcement is required:

  “I agree that this change makes sense, but the internal hashes do not provide
  any security, since anybody who is able to tamper with the phar can easily mod-
  ify the hashes as well – the internal hash only shields against accidental cor-
  ruption of the phar. Only an external hash can provide security…Properly secur-
  ing phars would require something like phar.require_signature, i.e. enforcing
  the phar to have an OpenSSL signature; and even then proper signature verifica-
  tion would be required.”

     Listing 5 shows the human written annotation, which tracks the signature configuration flag phar->sig_
flags at points where the signature algorithm is selected. Listing 6 shows the LLM-generated annotation, which
instruments the same variable inside the signature-generation logic. Although the LLM inserts annotations at
finer granularity and across multiple control-flow paths, both annotations expose the same security-critical state
governing cryptographic strength.
// Function: phar_create_signature
  1 default:
  2     #ifdef _USE_IJON
  3     IJON_SET(phar->sig_flags);
  4     #endif
  5     phar->sig_flags = PHAR_SIG_SHA256;
  6     ZEND_FALLTHROUGH;

  7 if (!phar->is_data && !phar->sig_flags) {
  8     #ifdef _USE_IJON
  9     IJON_SET(phar->sig_flags);
 10     #endif
 11     phar->sig_flags = PHAR_SIG_SHA256;
 12 }



                       Listing 5: Human IJON Annotation for Phar Signature Configuration




                                                       23
  1 int phar_create_signature(phar_archive_data *phar, php_stream *fp, ...)
  2 {
  3 #ifdef _USE_IJON
  4     IJON_STATE(1);
  5 #endif
  6     switch (phar->sig_flags) {
  7 #ifdef _USE_IJON
  8         IJON_SET(phar->sig_flags);
  9 #endif
 10         case PHAR_SIG_SHA256:
 11             ...
 12         case PHAR_SIG_OPENSSL:
 13 #ifdef _USE_IJON
 14             IJON_MAX(sig_len);
 15             IJON_SET(siglen);
 16 #endif
 17             ...
 18     }
 19     return SUCCESS;
 20 }



                  Listing 6: LLM-Generated IJON Annotation for Phar Signature Configuration


Example: Null-Pointer Guard (Semantic Divergence). The following review points out that an existing null
check is ineffective because the dereference occurs earlier:

  “Then should the if(!pReq) code be removed? Because a null pointer dereference
  will occur before it reaches that.”

    Listing 7 shows the human annotation, which encodes a defensive invariant by tracking whether execution
passes through the null-check guard before pointer use. In contrast, Listing 8 shows the LLM-generated annota-
tion, which instruments the pointer value prior to the guard, thereby exposing the vulnerable dereference rather
than the intended safety condition.
// Function: LSAPI_GetEnv_r
  1 if (!pReq || !name) {
  2     #ifdef _USE_IJON
  3     IJON_INC(!pReq || !name);
  4     #endif
  5     return NULL;
  6 }
  7 #ifdef _USE_IJON
  8 IJON_INC(pReq && name);
  9 #endif



                      Listing 7: Human IJON Annotation Encoding a Null-Check Invariant




                                                      24
    char *LSAPI_GetEnv_r(LSAPI_Request *pReq, const char *name)
    1
    {
    2
  3 #ifdef _USE_IJON
  4     IJON_SET((uintptr_t)pReq);
  5 #endif
  6     struct LSAPI_key_value_pair *pBegin =
  7         pReq->m_pEnvList; // Dereference before guard
  8     ...
  9     if (!pReq || !name)
 10         return NULL;
 11 }



                     Listing 8: LLM-Generated IJON Annotation Demonstrating Premature Dereference

   Taken together, these results show that EyeQ frequently captures the same semantic vulnerability states as hu-
man experts when generating IJON annotations, while divergences arise primarily when reviewer intent requires
encoding a defensive invariant rather than exposing an immediately observable program state.


B       Bug finding results
This appendix provides the detailed crash and bug lists referenced throughout the evaluation. We first list the
unique crashes from RQ2 and RQ3, then summarize the previously unknown bugs found in our longer-running
study.

B.1     Unique crashes in RQ2
Table 1 lists all unique crashes found by EyeQLLM in the experiments for RQ2.

                   Table 1: RQ2 — 24 unique crashes found by EyeQLLM in the per-stage comparison.

 ID     Function                 Source File              Occ.   Commits                 PHP Ver. ASAN Summary

                                                                 57a4a2c5a8dd
                                                                 7553c696c306
                                                                 2aceb0b00e21
                                                                 312fa05a291b
                                                                 df2414a2230d
                                                                 182e3ac0c399              8.0
  01    php_pcre_create_         ext/pcre/php_pcre.c      242    28500fe4ef12              8.1      ABRT in raise.
        match_data                                               e7123ef569d2              8.2
                                                                 11bf5ccf6238
                                                                 8bb7417ca26c
                                                                 bebb0b7bbe0c
                                                                 c945c399aa80
                                                                 d54e197baee6
                                                                 7553c696c306              8.0
  02    zval_undefined_cv Zend/zend_execute.c              3                                        SEGV in zval_und
                                                                 bebb0b7bbe0c              8.1
                                                                                                    efined_cv.
                                                                 11bf5ccf6238
  03    zend_gc_delref           Zend/zend_types.h         5     8bb7417ca26c              8.1      SEGV in GC reference
                                                                 d54e197baee6                       handling.
  04    decrement_functi         Zend/zend_operators.     13     57a4a2c5a8dd              8.0      ABRT in raise.
        on                       c
                                                                 3fe698b90493
                                                                 e23a9d6a5c7d
                                                                                           7.3
                                                                 03108697b86f
  05    __interceptor_st         main/spprintf.c          42                               7.4      Stack overflow in
                                                                 08755e6b8915
        rlen                                                                               8.1      strlen.
                                                                 2d48d734a201
                                                                 c945c399aa80




                                                           25
 ID    Function            Source File              Occ.   Commits                      PHP Ver. ASAN Summary

 06    __interceptor_st    main/snprintf.c           1     d54e197baee6                   8.1   SEGV in strlen
       rlen                                                                                     interceptor.
 07    zend_mm_panic       Zend/zend_alloc.c         3     a3a529411e00                   7.0   SEGV during allocator
                                                                                                panic.
 08    zend_mm_panic       Zend/zend_hash.c          1     fb4e3085cbaa                   7.0   SEGV during heap
                                                                                                free.
 09    zend_call_functi    Zend/zend_execute_        2     3fe698b90493                   7.4   Stack overflow in call
       on                  API.c                                                                dispatch.
 10    __interceptor_me    ext/mbstring/php_u        2     2d48d734a201                   7.3   Stack-buffer-overflow
       mcpy                nicode.c                                                             in memcpy.
                                                           e23a9d6a5c7d                   7.3
 11    __interceptor_me    Zend/zend_smart_st        2                                          Stack overflow in
                                                           08755e6b8915                   7.4
       mcpy                ring.h                                                               memcpy interceptor.
 12    __asan_region_is    Zend/zend_smart_st        1     3fe698b90493                   7.4   Stack overflow in ASan
       _poisoned           ring.h                                                               poisoning check.
 13    mbfl_convert_fil    ext/mbstring/libmb        1     8bb7417ca26c                   8.1   SEGV due to NULL
       ter_get_vtbl        fl/mbfl/mbfl_conve                                                   vtable.
                           rt.c
                                                           7cf1450df14b
 14    zval_addref_p       Zend/zend_types.h        98                                    7.0   ABRT during refcount
                                                           a3a529411e00
                                                                                                update.
 15    _zval_get_long_f    Zend/zend_operators.      1     caf007cdd604                   7.1   ABRT in raise.
       unc                 c
 16    convert_to_long_    Zend/zend_operators.      1     7cf1450df14b                   7.0   ABRT in raise.
       base                c
                                                           2aceb0b00e21
 17    mbfl_strlen         ext/mbstring/libmb        6                                    8.2   ABRT in raise.
                                                           df2414a2230d
                           fl/mbfl/mbfilter.c
                                                           bdc96afbdd25
 18    zif_range         ext/standard/array          2                                    7.0   SEGV in range genera-
                                                           fb4e3085cbaa
                         .c                                                                     tion.
 19    _zend_hash_del_el Zend/zend_hash.c            4     bdc96afbdd25                   7.0   SEGV in hash dele-
                                                                                                tion.
                                                           7553c696c306                   8.0
 20    zend_assign_to_s Zend/zend_execute.c          2                                          SEGV in string offset
                                                           e7123ef569d2                   8.1
       tring_offset                                                                             assignment.
 21    zend_compile_uns Zend/zend_compile.c          1     a3a529411e00                   7.0   ABRT during unset
       et                                                                                       compilation.
 22    zend_mm_free_heap Zend/zend_alloc.c           1     8bb7417ca26c                   8.1   SEGV in zend_mm_
                                                                                                free_heap.
                                                           57a4a2c5a8dd
                                                                                          8.0
 23    _zendi_try_conve    Zend/zend_operators.      7     7553c696c306                         ABRT in raise.
                                                                                          8.1
       rt_scalar_to_num    c                               d54e197baee6
       ber
 24    zend_mm_alloc_sm    Zend/zend_alloc.c         1     08755e6b8915                   7.3   Stack overflow in
       all                                                                                      allocator.




B.2    Unique crashes in RQ3
Table 2 presents all unique crashes found by EyeQLLM in the experiments for RQ3.

   Table 2: RQ3 — 30 unique crashes found by EyeQLLM on the Sep-Dec 2025 code review dataset of PHP.

  ID   Function               Source                       Occ.   PHP Ver.     ASAN Summary

                                                                  8.4.14-dev
  01   zend_objects_destr     Zend/zend_objects.c          318    8.5.0-dev    SEGV in zend_objects_destroy_o
       oy_object                                                  8.6.0-dev    bject.
                                                                  8.1.34-dev
  02   php_pcre_create_ma     ext/pcre/php_pcre.c          165    8.4.0-dev    ABRT in raise.
       tch_data                                                   8.5.0-dev
  03   zend_reference_des     Zend/zend_variables.         15     8.5.0-dev    ABRT in raise.
       troy                   c


                                                     26
ID   Function             Source                     Occ.   PHP Ver.     ASAN Summary

04   ZEND_ASSIGN_OBJ_SP   Zend/zend_vm_execute       15     8.5.0-dev    SEGV in VM handler.
     EC_VAR_TMPVAR_OP_D   .h
     ATA_TMP_HANDLER
                                                            8.3.26-dev
                                                            8.3.27-dev
05   zif_mb_str_pad       ext/mbstring/mbstrin       10     8.3.28-dev   FPE in zif_mb_str_pad.
                          g.c                               8.3.29-dev
                                                            8.4.0-dev
                                                            8.3.26-dev
                                                            8.3.27-dev
06   zendi_try_get_long   Zend/zend_operators.       10     8.3.28-dev   ABRT in raise.
                          c                                 8.3.29-dev
                                                            8.4.0-dev
07   ZEND_POST_INC_OBJ_   Zend/zend_vm_execute        8     8.5.0-dev    SEGV in VM handler.
     SPEC_VAR_CV_HANDLE   .h
     R
                                                            8.3.27-dev
08   php_mb_check_encod   ext/mbstring/mbstrin        6     8.3.28-dev   SEGV in php_mb_check_encoding.
     ing                  g.c                               8.3.29-dev
                                                            8.3.28-dev
09   strlen               main/spprintf.c             8     8.5.0-dev    SEGV in strlen.
                                                            8.6.0-dev
10   zend_mm_panic        Zend/zend_alloc.c           3      8.4.0-dev   SEGV in allocator panic (kill).
                                                            8.3.27-dev
11   _zend_is_inconsist   Zend/zend_hash.c            3     8.3.29-dev   ABRT in raise.
     ent                                                    8.4.14-dev
12   strlen               ext/standard/mail.c         2      8.6.0-dev   SEGV in strlen.
                                                            8.3.27-dev
13   _php_mb_regex_ereg   ext/mbstring/php_mbr        2                  ABRT in raise.
                                                             8.5.0-dev
     _replace_exec        egex.c
14   ZEND_PRE_INC_OBJ_S   Zend/zend_vm_execute        2     8.5.0-dev    SEGV in VM handler.
     PEC_VAR_CV_HANDLER   .h
15   onig_number_of_nam   ext/mbstring/php_mbr        2     8.3.27-dev   SEGV in onig_number_of_names.
     es                   egex.c
16   zend_mm_set_next_f   Zend/zend_alloc.c           2     8.5.0-dev    Stack overflow in zend_mm_set_next_f
     ree_slot                                                            ree_slot.
                                                            8.4.0-dev
17   zend_array_destroy   Zend/zend_hash.c            3                  Stack overflow (also ABRT in raise in some
                                                            8.5.0-dev
                                                                         cases).
18   zend_lazy_object_g   Zend/zend_lazy_objec        1     8.5.0-dev    ABRT in raise.
     et_info              ts.c
19   zend_fetch_propert   Zend/zend_execute.c         1     8.5.0-dev    SEGV in zend_fetch_property_ad
     y_address                                                           dress.
20   zend_ast_evaluate_   Zend/zend_ast.c             1     8.4.0-dev    Stack overflow in zend_ast_evaluate_
     inner                                                               inner.
21   strlen               Zend/zend_execute.c         1     8.5.0-dev    SEGV in strlen.
22   zend_mm_free_small   Zend/zend_alloc.c           2     8.5.0-dev    Stack overflow in zend_mm_free_sma
                                                                         ll.
23   zend_mm_set_next_f   Zend/zend_hash.c            3     8.6.0-dev    Stack overflow in zend_mm_set_next_f
     ree_slot                                                            ree_slot.
24   gc_check_possible_   Zend/zend_hash.c            1     8.6.0-dev    Stack overflow in gc_check_possible_
     root                                                                root.
25   zend_string_releas   Zend/zend_string.h          1     8.6.0-dev    SEGV in zend_string_release_ex.
     e_ex
26   zend_mm_free_small   Zend/zend_hash.c            1     8.6.0-dev    Stack overflow in zend_mm_free_sma
                                                                         ll.
27   zend_mm_free_heap    Zend/zend_alloc.c           1     8.5.0-dev    Stack overflow in zend_mm_free_heap.
28   zend_mm_free_heap    Zend/zend_hash.c            1     8.6.0-dev    Stack overflow in zend_mm_free_heap.
29   zend_array_destroy   Zend/zend_execute.c         1     8.6.0-dev    Stack overflow in zend_array_destr
                                                                         oy.
30   _emalloc             Zend/zend_alloc.c           1     8.3.27-dev   Stack overflow in _emalloc.




                                                27
B.3   Previously unknown bugs
Table 3 presents all previously unknown bugs discovered by EyeQ.

Table 3: All previously unknown bugs discovered by EyeQ in our experiments. “Cf” indicates the bug has been
 confirmed by PHP core developers, “Fx” denotes a bug that has been fixed upstream, and “Pd” means a bug is
 pending for further analysis. A missing Issue ID or Description (“-”) denotes a security bug whose details are
                         intentionally withheld to comply with responsible disclosure.

 ID   Crash Location   Issue ID Status    Fixes    Description

 01   zend_hash.c       19613    Fx      +31 -2    SEGV caused by incorrect iterator reset handling during Copy-on-Write array modification.
 02   zend_hash.c       19839    Fx      +22 -1    Incorrect HASH_FLAG_HAS_EMPTY_IND flag on userland array.
 03   zend_hash.c       19840    Fx      +64 -10   Hash table corruption during shutdown when bailing out of user stream handling.
 04   zend_hash.c       20286    Fx      +33 -13   Hash table use-after-destroy in function table during stream wrapper cleanup.
 05   zend_hash.c       19605    Cf         -      Failed reference count assertion in zend_hash_index_add_or_update_i() during
                                                   table update.
 06   zend_hash.c       20503    Fx      +49 -0    Assertion failure in hash-table property-hash construction when using DateInterval in
                                                   complex nested assignments/casts, leading to crash in _zend_hash_str_add_or_up
                                                   date_i().
 07   zend_hash.c       20477    Cf         -      Heap use-after-free in zend_array_count (Zend Hash), calling zend_array_cou
                                                   nt on a freed HashTable triggers invalid memory access.
 08   zend_hash.c       20656    Cf         -      HashTable use-after-destroy in function table triggered by stream-wrapper magic via nested
                                                   redeclaration in __call(); crash arises inside zend_hash during cleanup.
 09   zend_hash.c       20855    Cf        -       Failure in zend_hash_del with HashTable refcount inconsistency.
 10   spl_dllist        20856    Fx      +35 -2    SPL: heap-use-after-free in SplDoublyLinkedList iterator when modifying during iteration.
      .c
 11   basic_func        20906    Fx      +79 -3    Assertion failure in zif_highlight_string when messing up output buffers.
      tions.c
 12   mail.c            20858    Fx      +47 -1 Null pointer dereference in php_mail_detect_multiple_crlf via error_log.
 13   url.c             20088    Fx       +1155 Heap UAF in WHATWG URI parser during malformed URL processing.
                                           -31
 14   url.c             20502    Fx      +19 -10 SEGV in WHATWG URL parser (Lexbor integration) when parsing malformed URLs, mem-
                                                 ory corruption in URL handling.
 15   output.c          20352    Fx      +34 -4 Heap UAF in php_output_handler_free via re-entrant ob_start() during error
                                                 deactivation.
 16   zend_compi        20113    Fx      +17 -1 Missing new expression handling in constant expressions.
      le.c
 17   zend_gc.c         19983    Cf         -      GC failure due to unaligned reference pointer in gc_collect_roots().
 18   zend_gc.h         20861    Cf         -      GC failure in gc_check_possible_root_no_ref with lazy proxy.
 19   zend_types        19999    Cf         -      GC reference counting assertion failure via invalid object assignment.
      .h
 20   zend_types        20519    Cf         -    Use-after-destroy in type-system structures triggered by nested magic __call() inside
      .h                                         stream wrappers, causing reuse of freed entries and potential memory corruption.
 21   zendlex.c         20564    Fx      +32 -63 Failure in zendlex() during re-entrant __call() execution triggered by eval() +
                                                 autoloader registration, can lead to interpreter abort or memory corruption.
 22   zend_fibers.      20483    Fx      +26 -1 Stack-overflow in zend_fiber_execute() when using a too-small fiber.stack_
      c                                          size (invalid “fiber.stack_size” setting), leading to crash/stack overflow.
 23   zend_fibers.      20615    Cf         -    Failure in check_node_running_in_fiber() when resuming a generator inside a
      c                                          Fiber destructor, leading to crash during fiber cleanup.
 24   php_reflec        20174    Fx      +93 -42 Failure in ReflectionProperty::skipLazyInitialization after failed
      tion.c                                     LazyProxy initialization.
 25   zend_objec        20177    Fx      +32 -0 Incorrect handling of overridden private properties in object variables.
      t_handlers
      .c
 26   zend_objec        20479    Fx      +42 -1    Heap buffer overflow in property-hook logic: unbounded append in zho_build_prop
      t_handlers                                   erties_ex() when a re-entrant getter is triggered during var_export(), leading to
      .c                                           memory corruption.
 27   zend.c,...          -      Cf        -       -
 28   zend_objec        20183    Fx      +73 -3    Heap UAF via stale EG(opline_before_exception) pointer during eval.
      ts.c
 29   zend_objec        20324    Fx      +45 -13 NULL EG(current_execute_data) during destructor execution.
      ts.c



                                                                    28
ID   Crash Location   Issue ID Status   Fixes    Description

30   zend_objec          -      Pd        -      -
     ts.c
31   zend_objec        20612    Cf        -      HashTable use-after-destroy during lazy-proxy __get() with dynamic properties.
     ts.c
32   zend_objec        20657    Fx      +26 -1   Assertion failure in zend_lazy_object_get_info triggered by calls to setRaw-
     ts.c                                        ValueWithoutLazyInitialization() and newLazyGhost() on lazy-loaded
                                                 objects, leading to crash when inspecting object info.
33   zend_lazy_        20905    Fx      +24 -2   Assertion failure in zend_lazy_object_del_info when cloning lazy proxy.
     objects.c
34   zend_execu        20270    Fx      +55 -1   NULL pointer dereference when handling named arguments in property hook setter.
     te.c
35   zend_execu        20614    Fx      +29 -2 Incorrect reference-handling during unserialization of SplFixedArray causes an assertion
     te.h                                      failure in the Zend VM execution layer; resolved by fixing reference propagation in zend_e
                                               xecute.h.
36   zend_vm_ex        20073    Fx      +16 -1 Failure in WeakMap offset operations on reference.
     ecute.h
37   zend_vm_ex        20085    Fx      +29 -2   Missing exception handling in FETCH_RW handler.
     ecute.h
38   zend_vm_ex        20171    Cf        -      Failure during LazyProxy initialization with inherited by-reference __get() method.
     ecute.h
39   zend_vm_ex        20482    Cf        -      Use-after-free in VM: object slot reused after exception thrown in object instantiation, leading
     ecute.h                                     to potential memory corruption on subsequent variable access.
40   zend_ini_p        20695    Fx      +15 -1   Uninitialized memory in PHP’s INI string parser (parse_ini_string).
     arser.y
41   php_dom.c         20722    Fx      +20 -5   Null pointer dereference in DOM namespace node cloning via clone on malformed objects.

42   php_mbregex. 21036         Pd        -      Null pointer dereference in mb_ereg_search_getregs() after mb_eregi() invali-
     c                                           dates regex cache.
43   mbstring.c   20833         Fx      +25 -0   mb_str_pad() divide by zero if padding string is invalid in the encoding
44   zend_hash.c 20836          Fx       +127    Stack overflow in mbstring variable conversion with recursive array references.
                                          -13
45   zend_ast.c   21072         Fx      +22 -0   zend_ast assertion failure in class property initializer.
46   php_mbregex.   -           Cf         -     -
     c




                                                                   29
