                                         Towards Verified Code Reasoning by LLMs
                                         MEGHANA SISTLA∗ , University of Texas at Austin, USA
                                         GOGUL BALAKRISHNAN, Google DeepMind, USA
                                         PAT RONDON, Google, USA
                                         JOSÉ CAMBRONERO, Google, USA
                                         MICHELE TUFANO, Google, USA
                                         SATISH CHANDRA† , Meta Platforms, USA
arXiv:2509.26546v2 [cs.SE] 13 Nov 2025




                                         While LLM-based agents are able to tackle a wide variety of code reasoning questions, the answers are not
                                         always correct. This prevents the agent from being useful in situations where high precision is desired: (1)
                                         helping a software engineer understand a new code base, (2) helping a software engineer during code review
                                         sessions, and (3) ensuring that the code generated by an automated code generation system meets certain
                                         requirements (e.g. fixes a bug, improves readability, implements a feature).
                                            As a result of this lack of trustworthiness, the agent’s answers need to be manually verified before they
                                         can be trusted. Manually confirming responses from a code reasoning agent requires human effort and can
                                         result in slower developer productivity, which weakens the assistance benefits of the agent. In this paper, we
                                         describe a method to automatically validate the answers provided by a code reasoning agent by verifying
                                         its reasoning steps. At a very high level, the method consists of extracting a formal representation of the
                                         agent’s response and, subsequently, using formal verification and program analysis tools to verify the agent’s
                                         reasoning steps.
                                            We applied this approach to a benchmark set of 20 uninitialized variable errors detected by sanitizers and
                                         20 program equivalence queries. For the uninitialized variable errors, the formal verification step was able
                                         to validate the agent’s reasoning on 13/20 examples, and for the program equivalence queries, the formal
                                         verification step successfully caught 6/8 incorrect judgments made by the agent.

                                         1   INTRODUCTION
                                         When writing code, whether adding a new feature or fixing an existing bug, or when reviewing
                                         code, software engineers must be able to carefully reason about code properties. Some examples of
                                         such code reasoning questions, which come up during software engineering activities, are:
                                              • Does any call site depend on the order of elements in the vector returned by this method?
                                              • Will we avoid a copy, if we use std::move(*example.mutable_features()) instead of
                                                 example.features()?
                                              • Can read_response_settings be null here?
                                              • Can device.device_ip() be an invalid IP address? If so, show me a call sequence that
                                                 causes an invalid ip address.
                                              • Can you explain why there is a use of an uninitialized value here?
                                              • Does this change fix the bug?
                                            Answering these questions requires understanding the code (e.g., its design, programming
                                         language) and the question posed. Because software developers very often encounter these questions
                                         in settings such as new code bases or judging code generated by an automated (and possibly
                                         unreliable) source, there is a substantial opportunity to provide reasoning assistance.
                                         ∗ Work done while interning at Google.
                                         † Work done while at Google.


                                         Authors’ addresses: Meghana Sistla, University of Texas at Austin, USA, mesistla@utexas.edu; Gogul Balakrishnan, Google
                                         DeepMind, USA, bgogul@google.com; Pat Rondon, Google, USA, rondon@google.com; José Cambronero, Google, USA,
                                         jcambronero@google.com; Michele Tufano, Google, USA, tufanomichele@google.com; Satish Chandra, Meta Platforms,
                                         USA, schandra@acm.org.
 2            Meghana Sistla, Gogul Balakrishnan, Pat Rondon, José Cambronero, Michele Tufano, and Satish Chandra


    Modern LLMs, and more recently LLM-powered agents, offer a compelling tool for assistance in
 such code reasoning questions. However, as is well known, LLMs (and agents that use them) have
 a propensity to hallucinate and may produce incorrect answers. In the domain of code reasoning,
 such incorrect answers can at best result in wasted developer time and at worst result in dangerous
 misunderstandings with the possibility of introducing serious code errors.
    One way to take advantage of the code understanding abilities of LLMs, while producing high-
 quality code reasoning answers is to employ formal verification over the agent’s responses. In
 this paper, we describe how to build an LLM agent to answer code reasoning questions in such a
 verifiable manner. We now describe how one might build a basic code reasoning agent, without
 verification, and show this can introduce subtle mistakes. We then build on this to introduce our
 verification approach.

 1.1   Basic Agentic Code Reasoning
Fig. 1 shows the high-level architecture of
the code reasoning agent. The agent is pro-           Tools: cat, code_search
vided with tools cat and code_search. The
agent uses these tools to explore the code
base and iteratively grab code snippets that                                             Extract
                                                                 LLM        Agent Log    Agent’s
                                                                                                      Response
could help answer a code reasoning ques- Query               calling loop               Responses
                                                                                      (Deterministic)
tion. (This style of iterative discovery of
context has become standard in many ap-
plications.)                                              System Prompt
   We use a ReACT-style loop [33] to imple-
ment the agent. At every step, the model Fig. 1. Basic agentic framework with an LLM function call-
either responds with a function call request, ing loop and extraction of the agent’s response.
a textual response, or both. Whenever the
model’s response includes a function call request, we execute the function and add the result of the
execution as a user response in the chat session. We continue these steps until either the number
of allowed steps is exhausted or the model’s response contains no function call requests. Here is an
example trace of what this interaction looks like:
                                                                                                              
 < user > why is this null here ?
 < model > user is asking the why a pointer is null . I need to find the source code
      first .
 < model > [ function_call_request ] get somefile . cc for me .
 < user > [ tool_output ] Here is somefile . cc ...
 < model > Now that I have the file , I need to understand the code .
 < model > [ function_call_request ] get all the uses of this variable ...
 < user > [ tool_output ] here you go ...
 ...
 < model > Here is the final response . The pointer `foo ` is null because ...
                                                                                                                   
   When the function calling loop terminates, we extract all of the model’s textual responses from
 the agent log. The extracted sequence of messages collates the agent’s thought and justifications.
 More details on the system prompt used in these agentic code reasoning tasks can be found in §A.1.

 1.2   But can you trust it?
When the agent was run on a set of code-reasoning questions from CRQBench [6] (a benchmark of
100+ code-reasoning questions), the agent was able to tackle a wide variety of questions, but the
answers were not always correct. For example, the agent may say two fragment of code mean the
Towards Verified Code Reasoning by LLMs                                                                  3

                                                                                                            
absl :: StatusOr < unsigned > find ( unsigned start , char * str , char goal ) {
  unsigned len = strlen ( str ) ;
  for ( unsigned i = start ; str [ i ] != 0 && i < len ; i ++) {
     char * tmp = str ;
     if ( tmp [ i ] == goal ) return i ;
  }
  return absl :: NotFoundError ( " goal ␣ not ␣ found " ) ;
}
                                                                                                            
Fig. 2. An array-bounds example where the code reasoning question (asked to the agent) is asked “Is str[i]
access safe?”; the correct answer is unsafe.


same where in reality they do not. (Several examples appear in Section 2.) This prevents the agent
from being useful because the answers need to be manually verified before they can be trusted.
Verifying the responses from the code reasoning agent manually involves human effort and can
lead to slower developer productivity, which is undesirable.
   The main contribution of the paper is a method to automatically validate the answers provided
by the agent by verifying its reasoning steps. At a very high level, the method consists of converting
the textual output of the explanation from the agent into a formal representation and, subsequently,
using formal verification and program analysis tools to verify that the agent’s reasoning steps do
not contain any errors.
   We applied this approach to a benchmark set of 20 uninitialized variable errors detected by
memory sanitizers and 20 program equivalence queries. For the uninitialized variable errors, the
formal verification step was able to validate the agent’s reasoning on 13/20 examples, and for
the program equivalence queries, the formal verification step successfully caught 6/8 incorrect
judgments made by the agent.
   The paper is organized into the following sections:
      • §2 delves into the kinds of errors we notice in LLM outputs when attempting to answer
        code reasoning questions.
      • The general framework used for verifying LLM reasoning is discussed in §3.
      • §4 shows a demonstration of our approach to a simpler problem of memory-sanitizer bugs.
      • §5 discusses our work in more detail for the problem of program equivalence.
      • §6 discusses future work, §7 discusses related work, and §8 concludes.

2     ERRORS IN LLM REASONING
In this section, we will discuss the type of errors shown in LLM reasoning in the context of
answering code-reasoning questions. A manual evaluation of the agent’s responses shows that
the agent can make errors in its reasoning steps. Broadly, the errors fall into one of the following
categories: (a) the agent makes incorrect assumptions about code semantics; (b) the agent fails to
consider all aspects of the problem necessary to justify the final response; or (c) the agent makes
unwarranted assumptions about library behavior.

2.1    Incorrect Assumptions About Code Semantics
Consider the code shown in Fig. 2, where str[i] has an out-of-bounds access if start >= len.
  The agent is asked the following question: “Assume that str is (1) not null, and (2) properly
null-terminated. Is the access str[i] safe?” In several runs, Gemini (1.5 pro [27]/2.0-flash [3])
makes an incorrect assumption that the condition i < len strictly dominates the access str[i]
and reports that there are no memory errors in the program, as shown in Fig. 3.
4            Meghana Sistla, Gogul Balakrishnan, Pat Rondon, José Cambronero, Michele Tufano, and Satish Chandra

                                                                                                                  
// WRONG : Makes incorrect assumption that i < len strictly dominates str [ i ] != 0.
The loop condition is `str [ i ] != 0 && i < len `.
- `str [ i ] != 0` checks if the character at index `i ` is not the null terminator .
- `i < len ` checks if `i ` is within the bounds of the string , where `len ` is the
    length of the string ( excluding the null terminator ) .

Since `str ` is assumed to be null - terminated , the loop will terminate when `str [ i
    ]` is 0. Also , the condition `i < len ` ensures that `i ` does not exceed the
    length of the string . Therefore , the access `str [ i]` is safe because it will
    always be within the bounds of the string or at the null terminator .

Final Answer : The access `str [ i]` is safe .
                                                                                                                  
Fig. 3. LLM explanation for code in Fig. 2. The agent makes false assumptions about code semantics and
incorrectly answers the code reasoning question.

                                                                                                                  
// CORRECT : Considers various scenarios , incl . str [ i ] being an out - of - bound access
    .
The loop condition is `str [ i ] != 0 && i < len `.
Lets analyze the safety of `str [ i ] `:

. . .

If `i ` is equal to `len `, then `i < len ` is false , and the loop terminates .
    However , before that , `str [ i ] != 0` is evaluated . Since `len ` is the length of
      the string ( excluding the null terminator ) , `str [ len ]` is the null terminator
    , so `str [ len ]` is a valid access and `str [ len ] == 0 `.
. . .

Therefore , the access `str [ i]` is safe as long as `start ` is a valid starting
    index .
                                                                                                                  
Fig. 4. Correct Explanation for code in Fig. 2, the agent considers various scenarios, doesn’t make incorrect
assumptions, and correctly answers about the code reasoning question.

                                                                                                                  
char foo ( char * x , int len , int index ) {
  if ( index < len ) {
    return x [ index ];
  } else {
     return 0;
  }
}
                                                                                                                  
Fig. 5. Another array-bounds example where the agent is asked the code reasoning question - “Is the access
x[index] safe?”, and the answer is that the access is potentially unsafe.


  However, in other invocations, the agent produces a correct response. Fig. 4 shows an abridged
example where the LLM produces the correct answer.

2.2   Failing To Consider All Aspects of the Problem
   Another common failure mode is that the agent may not consider all the aspects necessary
to justify the final response. Consider the code snippet shown in Fig. 5. The agent is asked the
Towards Verified Code Reasoning by LLMs                                                                   5

                                                                                                              
// WRONG : Did not consider all aspects of the problem
The code checks if index is less than len before accessing x [ index ]. If index is
    within the bounds of the buffer ( i . e . , index < len ) , then the code returns the
     character at that index . Otherwise , if index is out of bounds , the code
    returns 0 , preventing an out - of - bounds access .
                                                                                                              
Fig. 6. Incorrect LLM explanation for code in Fig. 5; the explanation is incorrect because the agent did not
consider all possible scenarios of why x[index] could be unsafe – (1) x is a null-pointer, (2) index or len
could be negative.
                                                                                                              
// CORRECT : considers all aspects of the problem .
There is no immediately obvious problem with this code . It checks if the index is
    within the bounds of the array and returns the element at that index if it is ,
     otherwise it returns 0. However , there are some potential issues to consider :

1.    ** Null pointer `x `:** The code doesnt check if `x ` is a null pointer . If `x `
      is null , then `x [ index ]` will cause a segmentation fault .
2.    ** ` len ` is non - positive :** If `len ` is zero or negative , and `index ` is non -
      negative , then the condition ` index < len ` will evaluate to false if `len ` is
      zero , and it will evaluate to true if `len ` is negative . If `len ` is negative ,
       then `x [ index ]` will access memory out of bounds .
3.    ** ` index ` is negative :** If `index ` is negative , then `x [ index ]` will access
      memory out of bounds .
                                                                                                              

                             Fig. 7. Correct LLM Explanation for code in Fig. 5


following question: “len is the size of the buffer x. Is the access x[index] safe?”. The access is
potentially unsafe for the following reasons:
     • x could be a nullptr.
     • Either len or index could be negative and cause an out-of-bounds memory access.
   The agent should take into account all of the above aspects before answering the question.
However, the agent does not always do so as can be seen in Fig. 6.
   There are other instances where the model answers correctly, shown in Fig. 7.

2.3   Making unwarranted assumptions about library behavior
Another scenario is where the agent makes unwarranted assumptions about library code behaviour,
which can lead to incorrect responses from the agent.
   Consider the two code snippets shown in Fig. 8 that are similar except for how the condi-
tion on Line 82 is evaluated. In Code Snippet 1, the value of has_value is obtained by calling
session_input.has_value() on Line 80; whereas in Code Snippet 2, the value of is_empty is
obtained by calling IsEmpty(session_input) on Line 80.
   On querying the agent about the equivalence of the two code snippets, the agent incorrectly
assumes the behavior of the function calls has_value() and IsEmpty(), and falsely concludes the
programs
   Given the two code snippets, the agent is asked the following question: "Are the two code
snippets equivalent? Explain your reasoning.". The two code snippets are not equivalent as the
calls has_value() and IsEmpty() could have different behavior. The agent’s output is as shown
in Fig. 9. The agent clearly hallucinates and incorrectly concludes that the programs are equivalent
by justfying its claims with "Based on common C++ programming patterns and standard
6            Meghana Sistla, Gogul Balakrishnan, Pat Rondon, José Cambronero, Michele Tufano, and Satish Chandra

                                                                                                                
// main . cpp                                             // main . cpp
...                                                       ...
80: bool has_value =                                      80: bool is_empty =
81:         session_input . has_value () ;                81:         IsEmpty ( session_input ) ;
82: if ( has_value ) {                                    82: if (! is_empty ) {
83:   status . check = 0;                                 83:   status . check = 0;
84:   status . type =                                     84:   status . type =
85:       GetType ( session_input . value () ) ;          85:       GetType ( session_input . value () ) ;
86: }                                                     86: }
...                                                       ...
                                                                                                                
    (a) Code Snippet 1 using has_value method.                (b) Code Snippet 2 using IsEmpty method.

Fig. 8. Two not-equivalent code snippets are shown where the condition at Line 82 is obtained by checking
for has_value() in Code 1 and IsEmpty() in Code 2. The agent is asked “Are the code snippets equivalent?”.

                                                                                                                  
The two code snippets are semantically equivalent . Here is a step - by - step
    analysis of the reasoning .
...
### Equivalence Justification
- The condition to execute the inner block in the ** original code ** is `
    session_input . has_value () == true `.
- The condition to execute the inner block in the ** modified code ** is ` IsEmpty (
    session_input ) == false `.

Based on common C ++ programming patterns and standard library conventions , a `
    has_value () ` member function and an ` IsEmpty () ` free function for the same
    object are designed to be logical opposites . That is , an object "" has a value
    "" if and only if it is "" not empty "".

Therefore , the boolean expression ` session_input . has_value () ` is equivalent to `!
    IsEmpty ( session_input ) `.
...
                                                                                                                  

Fig. 9. Incorrect LLM explanation for a program equivalence query for programs in Fig. 8; the agent makes
incorrect assumptions about the library functions has_value and IsEmpty.


library conventions,...". The agent is aggressive in its assumptions, which leads to an incorrect
response.
  Even after providing the agent with the definitions for has_value() and IsEmpty(); the agent
continues to hallucinate and incorrectly reason about the program equivalence. More details can
be found in §A.2.

3   VERIFYING LLM REASONING
Given a textual explanation of the reasoning steps produced by an agent, how can we trust that its
findings are not hallucinations? Can we avoid the issues pointed out in the prior section?
   One of the common approaches that has emerged is the use of another LLM as a judge [25, 34] to
assess the assumptions. In this approach, an LLM is provided with some criteria for correctness and
asked to judge if the agent’s explanation satisfies the given criteria. This approach is not foolproof
either and is still susceptible to the LLM judge hallucinating.
Towards Verified Code Reasoning by LLMs                                                             7


   In this paper, we propose an alternative approach, where we extract a formal representation of
the agent’s reasoning steps and use formal verification tools to verify the agent’s reasoning steps. A
reader will wonder why not just use formal verification tools to answer the original code reasoning
questions to begin with? There are several advantages to using LLMs to answer code reasoning
questions: they are very good at slicing away the non-essential details, and usually don’t get bogged
down by the inherent conservativeness of static analysis. They are quick and work directly on
source code as given; they do not require elaborate set up of build files etc. Thus, the approach we
take is to validate an LLM’s own reasoning steps–given in prose–that lead to an answer, rather
than to attempt to answer the original code reasoning question using formal techniques. (This is
reminiscent of modern LLMs sometimes calling out to, say, a calculator, to discharge a arithmetic
step; except that we do this post facto, rather than during inference.)

3.1   CodeSemantics, AgentClaims, and VerificationCondition
To extract and verify the formal representation of the agent’s reasoning steps, we introduce three
terms:
     • CodeSemantics: Formal representation of the ground truth semantics of the underlying
       source code.
     • AgentClaims: Formal representation of the agent’s response.
     • VerificationCondition: Formal representation of the properties that need to be verified
       in the agent’s response.
   The agent’s explanation is correct if the following holds:

                                    CodeSemantics ⇒ AgentClaims                                    (1)

                              AgentClaims ⇒ VerificationCondition                                  (2)
  Agent Claims. Given the agent’s output (including explanation) for the code-reasoning question,
the code base, and a chosen formal representation method, we extract the agent’s claims in a formal
representation. In this work, we use formal predicates as the formal representation method. More
on this representation used for capturing agent’s claims formally is discussed in §3.2. The extraction
method is specific to the code-reasoning question, but at a high level, the formal predicates and the
pointers to the codebase are provided to an LLM-based agent to extract the agent’s claims for the
specific code-reasoning task. The formal predicates for each task and how the agent is prompted
are discussed in the specific sections in §4.2 and §5.2.
   Code Semantics. We can use compiler or static analysis tools to generate the code semantics.
There are several choices for the compiler or static analysis tool. CodeQL [5] is one such tool that
can be used to faithfully capture the underlying code semantics and provide an SQL-like query
language to query properties of code. However, although important, in this paper we do not discuss
capturing code semantics and therefore do not verify Eq. (1), leaving this to future work.
   Verification Condition. Automatically inferring the verification condition for a code reasoning
question is a separate problem in itself. For certain categories of questions, such as memory errors,
the verification condition is fairly straightforward. However, it is not a straightforward task for
open-ended questions. Fortunately, many code reasoning questions are already in the form of a
verification condition. Therefore, we can check for it directly. For other questions, the verification
condition may not be available directly and needs to be inferred. For example, consider the problem
of checking the equivalence of two program snippets; the verification condition would consist of the
syntactic and semantic properties that should remain consistent between the two program snippets.
8            Meghana Sistla, Gogul Balakrishnan, Pat Rondon, José Cambronero, Michele Tufano, and Satish Chandra


The set of syntactic and semantic properties would depend on the code snippets themselves and,
therefore, would need to be inferred using other means. In this paper, we will assume that the
verification condition is defined and given by the user. We will discuss the task-specific verification
conditions in §4.1 and §5.1.

3.2    Background: Datalog Predicates for Formal Representation
We will demonstrate how a formal representation can be used to detect common errors in the agent’s
reasoning steps. In this work, we use Soufflé ’s [24] datalog program as the formal representation.
Soufflé is a datalog-inspired logic programming language used specifically for program analysis
and verification. Datalog programs [9] have been widely used in the field of formal verification
and are quite suitable to formalize the agent’s reasoning steps. Datalog consists of a set of facts (in
terms of first-order predicates) and rules.
   For our use cases, Datalog programs can be used to capture agent’s reasoning as follows:
      • Datalog facts can be used to represent the claims made by the agent.
      • Datalog rules can be used to capture the inferences made by the agent’s output based on
        other facts.
   Example. Consider         the     program
                                                                                                                
in Fig. 10. The program is non-branching                          1. int a = 0;
with only int datatype and one function                           2. int d = 2;
output that takes a single integer variable                       3. output ( d ) ;
as input. Every variable is either defined                        4. int c = a ;
as a constant integer value or is assigned                       5. output ( c ) ;
                                                                                                                 
a value of another variable using a “copy”
assignment (as on Line 4). The condition is Fig. 10. A non-branching program with only int datatype
that the output function should only have and one function output that takes a single integer variable
variables with value 0 as the input.              as input. Every variable is either defined as a constant inte-
   Fig. 11 illustrates a datalog program that ger value or is assigned a value of another variable using
captures the required facts and the verifi- a “copy” assignment. The goal is to check if there exists
cation condition for the program in Fig. 10. an instance of output function call with a non-zero input.
Note that the line numbers are only for easy The program has non-zero input as variable d to function
reference. Lines 1-4 are the formal predicate output on Line 3.
signatures used to capture if a variable is assigned a zero or non-zero value, if the variable is defined
using a “copy” assignment, and to capture output function call with a particular argument.
   AgentClaims would be the facts or predicate instances on Lines 15-19 for the specific pro-
gram Fig. 10. The verification is to check if all inputs to output are zero; however, we can frame this
as a safety problem and check for the negation. Therefore, the VerificationCondition (isUnsafe
on Line 6) is to check if there exists an instance of output with a non-zero input. To accomplish
this, we can introduce rules to arrive at this conclusion, as shown on Lines 7-14.
   Note that we did not check for CodeSemantics in Fig. 11. However, for this example, Condition 1
would check if the facts made by the agent from Lines 15-19 are indeed true and if they truly
capture the code semantics.

4     MODELING UNINITIALIZED VARIABLES ERRORS
In this section, we illustrate our approach of verifying agent claims against a verification condition
for a simpler problem of memory-sanitizer (MSAN) bugs. Given a stack trace for the use-of-
uninitialized-value bugs, we ask the code reasoning agent to explain the root cause and subsequently
verify the agent’s response using our approach. In the case of MSAN bugs, we have the dynamic
Towards Verified Code Reasoning by LLMs                                                                        9

                                                                                                                   
//    Formal Predicate Signatures
1.    . decl defZero ( x : symbol , l : number )
2.    . decl defNonZero ( x : symbol , l : number )
3.    . decl copy ( x : symbol , y : symbol , l : number )
4.    . decl outputFn ( x : symbol , l : number )

5. . decl nonZeroInputToOutputFn ( x : symbol )
6. . decl isUnsafe ()

// Rules / Inferences
7. defZero (x , l ) : -
8.     copy (x , y , l ) , defZero (y , l1 ) , l1 < l .

9. defNonZero (x , l ) : -
10.     copy (x , y , l ) , defNonZero (y , l1 ) , l1 < l .

11. nonZeroInputToOutputFn ( x ) : -
12.     outputFn (x , l ) , l1 < l , defNonZero (x , l1 ) .

// Verification Condition
13. isUnsafe () : -
14.     outputFn (x , _ ) , nonZeroInputToOutputFn ( x ) .

// Facts ( Predicate instances ) -- AgentClaims
15. defZero (" a " , 1) .
16. defNonZero (" d " , 2) .
17. outputFn (" d " , 3) .
18. copy (" c " , " a " , 4) .
19. outputFn (" c " , 5) .
                                                                                                                   

Fig. 11. A datalog program for the program in Fig. 10. Note that the line numbers are only for ease of reference
in text.




trace of execution as well as the fact that the use of an uninitialized value did happen, which is not
typical. However, we show how our approach can be used in this context and how we can validate
the agent’s reponse using program analysis and formal verification tools.
   We will first discuss the verification condition (§4.1) for this problem of memory-sanitizer bugs,
and later describe how to extract AgentClaims(§4.2).

4.1     Verification Condition
The verification condition for MSAN bugs can be defined as follows:

                    ∃𝑥 ∃𝑦 ∃𝑥𝑙 ∃𝑦𝑙 𝑢𝑛𝑖𝑛𝑖𝑡𝑖𝑎𝑙𝑖𝑧𝑒𝑑 (𝑥, 𝑥𝑙 ) ∧ 𝑓 𝑙𝑜𝑤 (𝑥, 𝑥𝑙 , 𝑦𝑙 ) ∧ 𝑢𝑠𝑒 (𝑦, 𝑦𝑙 )                (3)

   where, 𝑢𝑛𝑖𝑛𝑖𝑡𝑖𝑎𝑙𝑖𝑧𝑒𝑑 (𝑥, 𝑥𝑙 ) captures that expression 𝑥 is uninitialized at source location 𝑥𝑙 ,
𝑓 𝑙𝑜𝑤 (𝑥, 𝑥𝑙 , 𝑦, 𝑦𝑙 ) captures the fact there is a data flow from variable 𝑥 at 𝑥𝑙 to 𝑦 at 𝑦𝑙 , and 𝑢𝑠𝑒 (𝑦, 𝑦𝑙 )
captures the fact that 𝑦 is used at 𝑦𝑙 . More on these predicates is discussed in §4.2.1.
   If we can verify that the agent proved the verification condition, we can conclude that the agent’s
reasoning about the root cause for the bug is correct.
10             Meghana Sistla, Gogul Balakrishnan, Pat Rondon, José Cambronero, Michele Tufano, and Satish Chandra




           Fig. 12. Generating a formal representation for MSAN bugs from the agent’s explanation.

     Predicate Set                                 Semantic Meaning
     uses(x : str, f : str, l : num)               Expression x is used at line l in file f.
     uninitialized(x : str, f : str, l : num) Expression x is uninitialized at line l in file f.
     hasInitializer(x : str, m : str)              Variable f has an initializer in m.
     hasMemberInitializer(x : str, m : str) Constructor m has an initializer for member variable x.
     allocated(x : str, f : str, l : num)          Memory referred to by x is allocated at line l in file f.
     declared(x : str, f : str, l : num)           Variable x is declared at line l in file f.
     flow(x : str, f1 : str, l1 : num,             The value of x defined at line l1 in file f1
       y : str, f2 : str, l2 : num)                flows to y at line l2 in file f2 .
     memoryError(x : str, error_type : str, There is a error_type kind of memory error
       f : str, l : num)                           involving x at line l in file f.
                     Table 1. Vocabulary of formal predicates (signatures) for MSAN queries



4.2     Extracting AgentClaims
In this section, we will describe how to extract a formal representation of the agent’s reasoning steps.
To extract AgentClaims using formal predicates, we can provide a vocabulary set of formal (first-
order) predicates, and ask the agent to use this vocabulary to generate the formal representation of
the output for the code reasoning query.
   Fig. 12 shows the steps involved in generating a formal representation. The steps for extracting
the formal representation for the current MSAN bugs include: (1) Fill in missing code snippets, (2)
Trace Extraction, and (3) Generate Formal Representation. We first describe the structure of the
formal representation and its generation and later briefly touch upon the other steps.
4.2.1 Formal Representation. Before detailing the formal representation for MSAN bugs, we define
the notion of a code trace.
  Definition 4.1. A code trace (or trace) is a sequence of program states or executed statements
recorded during a run. It represents the concrete path a program takes under a specific input or
execution scenario. In our context, a trace consists a sequence of program points, with associated
code snippets, highlighting the data and control flow between these program points.
   We generate a formal representation of the trace by prompting the LLM-based agent with a
system instruction that contains the vocabulary of formal predicate signatures (see §A.3 for the
system prompt). Tab. 1 shows the vocabulary of predicate signatures used to represent AgentClaims
formally. Fig. 13 shows an example of the formal representation of a trace using the predicate
signature set shown in Tab. 1.
   Next, we describe the process of extracting the trace from the agent’s explanation. This is
particularly useful when prompting the agent to generate a formal representation directly from the
Towards Verified Code Reasoning by LLMs                                                                  11

                                                                                                              
allocated ( " data_ " , " audio / base / audio_buffer . cc " , 375) .
flow ( " audio_buffer " ," client / testing / chia_client_test . cc " , 28 , " audio_buffer " , "
     internal / client / client . cc " , 527) .
uses ( " audio_buffer " , " internal / client / client . cc " , 527) .
flow ( " audio_buffer " , " internal / client / client . cc " , 527 , " audio_buffer " , " internal /
     client / client . cc " , 613) .
uses ( " audio_buffer " , " internal / client / client . cc " , 613) .
uses ( " sample_ptr " , " internal / client / encoders / audio_encoder . cc " , 218) .
flow ( " data_ " , " audio / base / audio_buffer . cc " , 375 , " sample_ptr " , " internal / client /
     encoders / audio_encoder . cc " , 218) .
uses ( " buffer " , " utils / encoders / stream_encoder . c " , 2538) .
flow ( " data_ " , " audio / base / audio_buffer . cc " , 375 , " buffer " , " utils / encoders //
     stream_encoder . c " , 2538) .
uninitialized ( " data_ " , " audio / base / audio_buffer . cc " , 375) .
memoryError ( " data_ " , " uninitialized_data " , " utils / encoders // stream_encoder . c " ,
     2538) .
                                                                                                              

Fig. 13. Example of formal representation of a trace using the predicate set shown in Tab. 1 for MSAN tasks.


explanation is not fruitful (due to the model size, complexity of the problem, etc.). In such cases,
adding a separate post-processing step to extract a trace and thereby AgentClaims is useful.
   Fill in Missing Code Snippets. We will now use the agent’s explanation, that also contains inter-
leaved relevant code snippets, for the code-reasoning query to extract AgentClaims. The agent is
then asked to use these relevant, probably partial, code snippets in the explanation and the code
base to find all the relevant source files and extract any missing code snippets, which will then be
used to extract a trace.
   Trace Extraction. The next step to generating a formal representation is making another call to
the LLM to extract a code “trace” that backs up the agent’s reasoning. In this LLM call, we provide
the following inputs: (1) all the source code retrieved in the previous step, (2) the final summary
from the reasoning agent. The system instruction for trace extraction can be found in §A.3.

4.3   Results
We randomly selected 20 MSAN bugs that were filed on internal projects for this evaluation. Unless
explicitly stated, we ran the experiments with temperature(t) = 0.2 and top_p = 0.95 configuration.
First, we ran the code reasoning agent (with Gemini 2.0 Flash model) in §1.1 five times and manually
classified the reasoning as valid or invalid. Out of the 100 runs (20 bugs × 5 runs per bug), 88 runs
had a valid explanation based on human judgment.
   Next, we passed the explanation of the agent’s reasoning steps to the formal verifier to check
the validity of the explanation. Fig. 14 shows the results of the formal verification check. The 100
different runs were classified in one of the following categories:
      • Agent: Correct, Verifier: YES: The cases where the agent was correct as per human
         judgment and the verifier is able to verify that the explanation is correct.
      • Agent: Correct, Verifier: DON’T KNOW: The cases where the agent was correct as per
         human judgment, but the verifier is unsure of the agent’s output.
      • Agent: Hallucinates, Verifier: DON’T KNOW: The cases where the agent hallucinates
         as per human judgment and the verifier is unsure of the agent’s output.
   Note that the verifier has perfect precision and low recall, because the if verifier says “YES”,
then it is indeed verified but if the output is “DON’T KNOW”, then we are unsure of the agent’s
12            Meghana Sistla, Gogul Balakrishnan, Pat Rondon, José Cambronero, Michele Tufano, and Satish Chandra




Fig. 14. Results of formal verification to validate agent’s explanation of the use of an uninitialized variable
error, where the formalizer was run for one iteration. If verifier says “YES”, then it is indeed verified but if
the output is “DON’T KNOW”, then we are unsure of the agent’s output.


output. As we can observe, the verification step is only able to prove the validity of 18 out of 88
valid explanations (blue). Manual investigation of the results showed that the problem was due
to inconsistent outputs from the model during the formalization steps. For example, the model
was not consistently generating all the datalog facts even though the textual explanations and the
extracted traces contain the relevant claims.
   One way to mitigate the problems is to run the formula (predicate instances) extraction step
multiple times and combine the outputs. The approach is sound for all practical purposes because
we are only adding missing facts with each subsequent run. Any inconsistencies that are introduced
in subsequent iterations will be caught by the formal checks. By running the formula extraction
step five times, we were able to improve the results. In particular, the total number of verified runs
went from 18/88 to 36/88 as shown in Fig. 15 (blue).




Fig. 15. Results of formal verification to validate agent’s explanation of the use of an uninitialized variable
error, where the formalizer was run for 5 iterations. If verifier says “YES”, then it is indeed verified but if the
output is “DON’T KNOW”, then we are unsure of the agent’s output.


   Among the 36 validated runs of the agent, there was at least one validated run corresponding 13
out of 20 MSAN bugs. In other words, we were able to prove the validity of the explanation for
13 out of the 20 MSAN bugs we considered. This could be improved further by making the model
generate consistent outputs either by tweaking the prompts further or by doing additional training
for style. We will defer those to future work.
Towards Verified Code Reasoning by LLMs                                                                     13




                  Fig. 16. Equivalence queries pipeline: Analyzer → Formalizer → Verifier.


  We also ran the experiments with a newer, stronger model like Gemini 2.5 Pro [3]. More details
can be found in §A.4.

5     PROGRAM EQUIVALENCE
In this section, we show how we can verify an agent’s explanations for program equivalence
queries using the same framework. We first introduce the verification condition for this task and
then describe how to extract agent claims, with a particular focus on what predicates are needed
to express claims for this domain. Finally, we present results for equivalence queries from two
benchmarks.

5.1    Verification Condition
The verification condition for the problem of program equivalence is – two programs 𝑝 1 and 𝑝 2 are
considered equivalent, if for the same initial state of 𝑝 1 and 𝑝 2 , the final state of both programs (for all
variables reaching the exit point) – assuming they terminate normally – are equivalent.

           𝑎𝑟𝑒𝑃𝑟𝑜𝑔𝑟𝑎𝑚𝑠𝐸𝑞𝑢𝑖𝑣𝑎𝑙𝑒𝑛𝑡 (𝑝 1, 𝑝 2 ) : (∀𝑥 : 𝑣𝑎𝑟 ∈ 𝑝 1, 𝑤𝑎𝑡𝑐ℎ𝑉 𝑎𝑟 (𝑥)
                                                → ∃𝑦 : 𝑣𝑎𝑟 ∈ 𝑝 2, 𝑤𝑎𝑡𝑐ℎ𝑉 𝑎𝑟 (𝑦) ∧ 𝑒𝑞𝑢𝑖𝑣 (𝑥, 𝑦)
                                                                                                            (4)
                                                ∧ (∀𝑦 : 𝑣𝑎𝑟 ∈ 𝑝 2, 𝑤𝑎𝑡𝑐ℎ𝑉 𝑎𝑟 (𝑦)
                                                → ∃𝑥 : 𝑣𝑎𝑟 ∈ 𝑝 1, 𝑤𝑎𝑡𝑐ℎ𝑉 𝑎𝑟 (𝑥) ∧ 𝑒𝑞𝑢𝑖𝑣 (𝑥, 𝑦)
   where, 𝑥 and 𝑦 are variables in 𝑝 1 and 𝑝 2 , 𝑤𝑎𝑡𝑐ℎ𝑉 𝑎𝑟 (𝑥) indicates the variables on which equiv-
alence is evaluated at the exit point of the programs, and 𝑒𝑞𝑢𝑖𝑣 (𝑥, 𝑦) is a rule that checks if the
variables 𝑥 and 𝑦 are semantically equivalent. Every variable that is reachable (i.e., a variable that
is alive) in 𝑝 1 at the exit point has an equivalent variable at the exit point in 𝑝 2 .
   Note that we use a stronger notion of equivalence than observational equivalence. Observational
Equivalence of two programs is defined as follows: Two programs 𝑝 1 and 𝑝 2 are equivalent (under
observational equivalence) if no larger program can distinguish between the two programs, i.e., there
is no difference in terms of the observable output of the two programs [21]. In contrast, our definition
of equivalence is stronger as we check if all the variables captured using 𝑤𝑎𝑡𝑐ℎ𝑉 𝑎𝑟 are equivalent.

5.2    Extracting AgentClaims
We implement a two-step approach to capturing AgentClaims for equivalence queries. First, we
apply an equivalence analyzer, which is an LLM-based agent that provides an initial answer to
14             Meghana Sistla, Gogul Balakrishnan, Pat Rondon, José Cambronero, Michele Tufano, and Satish Chandra

                                                                                                                            
// main . cpp                                                   // main . cpp
...                                                             ...
1. int a = 0;                                                   1. int a = 0;
2. int b = 2;                                                   2. int b = 2;
3. bool c = a == b ;                                            3. bool c = a == b ;
4. int d = 2;                                                   4. int d = 2;
5. if ( c ) {                                                   5. if ( c ) {
6.   d = foo ( a ) ;                                            6.   d = bar ( a ) ;
7. }                                                            7. }
...                                                             ...
                                                                                                                            
              (a) Sample code snippet 1                                        (b) Sample code snippet 2

Fig. 17. Two code snippets differing on Line 6; d is assigned as a result of foo in Code 1 and bar in Code 2.


the equivalence question. Second, we apply a formalizer that extracts formal statements from the
equivalence analyzer’s response. We now describe these steps in detail.
5.2.1 Equivalence Analyzer. The equivalence analyzer is an LLM-based agent equipped with cat
and code_search tools used to answer the program equivalence queries. The agent is provided
with partial code snippets and an equivalence query (along with a system prompt, see §A.5). The
agent uses the available tools to obtain the relevant code snippets needed to answer the program
equivalence query; and outputs the relevant code snippets and an explanation of whether the code
semantics are preserved or not. By retrieving the relevant code snippets, the agent does “implicit
slicing” of the program to the portions is required to answer the user’s equivalence query. We note
that this is a particular advantage of an LLM-based approach to answering such queries.
5.2.2 Formalizer. Given the relevant code snippets from the equivalence analyzer, the formalizer
produces a code abstraction similar to a Program-Dependence-Graph (PDG) [7], which is a directed
graph representing a program’s control and data dependencies with statements as nodes and
dependencies as edges. The abstractions of the code are captured using logical predicates. More
details on the abstractions are discussed later in this section.
   In this work, we use an LLM as the underlying formalizer. The formalization step is a call to
an LLM with the relevant code snippets (obtained from the analyzer §5.2.1) and a system prompt
(see §A.5) with a vocabulary of predicate signatures1 that the model should use to capture the
code semantics and the correspondence between the programs. The model is instructed to explain
equivalence using the code snippets and the logical predicate signatures available. The model’s
response contains three parts:
      • Formal logical predicates (concrete instances) capturing the code semantics
      • Required correspondence information between the two programs
      • An explanation – mixing natural language and predicates – of the equivalence outcome.
   The first two items (logical predicates and correspondence) constitute the AgentClaims in the con-
text of program equivalence, which are next validated using a VerificationCondition(see §5.1).
The third item (explanation) is not used for formal verification, and instead is an artifact used to
ground the model’s output. §A.6 shows an instance of this artifact for a simple example.

1We distinguish between predicate signatures, which specify the relation and its arity (e.g., isConstantValue(x : str)), and

the predicate instances (facts), which apply these signatures to concrete arguments (e.g., isConstantValue(“0”)). When no
ambiguity arises, we use the term “predicates” informally to refer to either.
Towards Verified Code Reasoning by LLMs                                                                                  15


  Predicate List                                     Semantics
  use(x : str, f : str, l : num)                     Variable x is used at line l in file f.
  def(x : str, f : str, l : num)                     Variable x is defined at line l in file f.
  flow(x : str, f1 : str, l1 : num,                  The value of variable x defined at line l1 in file f1
    y : str, f2 : str, l2 : num)                     flows to the variable y at line l2 in file f2 .
  controldep(x : str, f1 : str, l1 : num,            Variable x at l in file f is control-dependent
    cond : str, choice : bool, f2 : str, l2 : num)   on cond with the choice branch at l2 in f2 .
                                                     Variable x defined at l in f is a result of a complex expression,
  defWithExpr(x : str, f : str, l : num)
                                                     i.e. it is not a constant or a copy assignment.
                                                     Indicates a complex conditional at line l in file f,
  condWithExpr(f : str, l : num)
                                                     i.e., not a single variable or a negation of a variable.
  unaryFun(operator : str, operand : str,            Indicates a unary function with one operator
    f : str, l : num)                                and one operand at l in f.
  binaryFun(op : str, opd1 : str,                    Indicates a binary function with an operator op and
    opd2 : str, f : str, l : num)                    two operands opd1, opd2 at l in f.
  entry(fun : str, f : str, l : num)                 Function fun starts at line l in file f.
  exit(f : str, l : num)                             The main function returns at line l in file f.
  isConstantValue(x : str)                           Variable x is a constant value.
  watchVar(x : str, f : str, l : num)                Variable x is a variable on which equivalence is checked.
  varMap(x : str, f1 : str, l1 : num,                Creates a mapping between variables x in Code1 and y in Code2,
    y : str, f2 : str, l2 : num)                     to capture textually-different but equivalent variables.
                                                     Creates a mapping between the entry points
  entryMap(f1 : str, l1 : num, f2 : str, l2 : num)
                                                     of the main function in Code1 and Code2.
                                                     Creates a mapping between the exit points
  exitMap(f1 : str, l1 : num, f2 : str, l2 : num)
                                                     of the main function in Code1 and Code2.
Table 2. Vocabulary of predicate signatures to capture the code semantics for program equivalence queries.



   Implementation Details. Tab. 2 shows the vocabulary of predicates used to capture the semantics
of the code under consideration. The predicates varMap, entryMap, and exitMap capture explicit
correspondences between the two programs. Specifically, varMap maps variables that differ textually
but are semantically equivalent; entryMap aligns the entry points (line numbers) of the two
programs; and exitMap aligns their exit points. These mappings establish the correspondence
between the programs, while the remaining predicates encode their individual code semantics.
   In this work, we have normalized functions and expressions to unary and binary functions
before passing them to the formalizer. An expression of the form x = a + b + c; is normalized to
x_tmp = a + b; x = x_tmp + c;. Though we used the normalization technique in this work, one can
skip the need for normalization by enriching the formalization step to capture the code semantics
more thoroughly and precisely.
   Example. Fig. 17 shows two sample, normalized programs that are very similar except for a
local and minor change on Line 6. In Code 1, d is redefined on Line 6 with a call to foo(a) and is
redefined with a call to bar(a) in Code 2. Fig. 18 shows the predicates for the programs capturing the
semantics using the predicate list in Tab. 2. We can observe that the expression a == b is captured
as a binary function with == as the function symbol or the operator binaryFun(“ == ”, “a”, “b”, 3)
and the function call on Line 6 is represented as a unary function unaryFun(“foo”, “a”, 6) in Code 1
and unaryFun(“bar”, “a”, 6) in Code 2. Note that the file name “main.cpp” is removed for simplicity
in Fig. 18.

5.3   Design space of predicates for equivalence
The predicates needed to formulate meaningful agent claims are – like other program analyses
– determined by the task that the agent is asked to perform. For example, determining variable
16           Meghana Sistla, Gogul Balakrishnan, Pat Rondon, José Cambronero, Michele Tufano, and Satish Chandra

                                                                                                                
def ("0" , 0) .                                           def ("0" , 0) .
def ("2" , 0) .                                           def ("2" , 0) .
def (" a " , 1) .                                         def (" a " , 1) .
use ("0" , 1) .                                           use ("0" , 1) .
flow ("0" , 0 , "0" , 1) .                                flow ("0" , 0 , "0" , 1) .
flow ("0" , 1 , " a " , 1) .                              flow ("0" , 1 , " a " , 1) .
def (" b " , 2) .                                         def (" b " , 2) .
use ("2" , 2) .                                           use ("2" , 2) .
flow ("2" , 0 , "2" , 2) .                                flow ("2" , 0 , "2" , 2) .
flow ("2" , 2 , " b " , 2) .                              flow ("2" , 2 , " b " , 2) .
def (" c " , 3) .                                         def (" c " , 3) .
use (" a " , 3) .                                         use (" a " , 3) .
use (" b " , 3) .                                         use (" b " , 3) .
flow (" a " , 1 , " a " , 3) .                            flow (" a " , 1 , " a " , 3) .
flow (" b " , 2 , " b " , 3) .                            flow (" b " , 2 , " b " , 3) .
defWithExpr (" c " , 3) .                                 defWithExpr (" c " , 3) .
binaryFun ("==" , " a " , " b " , 3) .                    binaryFun ("==" , " a " , " b " , 3) .
def (" d " , 4) .                                         def (" d " , 4) .
use ("2" , 4) .                                           use ("2" , 4) .
flow ("2" , 0 , "2" , 4) .                                flow ("2" , 0 , "2" , 4) .
flow ("2" , 4 , " d " , 4) .                              flow ("2" , 4 , " d " , 4) .
use (" c " , 5) .                                         use (" c " , 5) .
flow (" c " , 3 , " c " , 5) .                            flow (" c " , 3 , " c " , 5) .
def (" d " , 6) .                                         def (" d " , 6) .
use (" a " , 6) .                                         use (" a " , 6) .
defWithExpr (" d " , 6) .                                 defWithExpr (" d " , 6) .
controldep (" d " , 6 , " c " , true , 5) .               controldep (" d " , 6 , " c " , true , 5) .
unaryFun (" foo " , " a " , 6) .                          unaryFun (" bar " , " a " , 6) .
exit (8) .                                                exit (8) .
use (" a " , 8) .                                         use (" a " , 8) .
flow (" a " , 1 , " a " , 8) .                            flow (" a " , 1 , " a " , 8) .
use (" b " , 8) .                                         use (" b " , 8) .
flow (" b " , 2 , " b " , 8) .                            flow (" b " , 2 , " b " , 8) .
use (" c " , 8) .                                         use (" c " , 8) .
flow (" c " , 3 , " c " , 8) .                            flow (" c " , 3 , " c " , 8) .
use (" d " , 8) .                                         use (" d " , 8) .
flow (" d " , 4 , " d " , 8) .                            flow (" d " , 4 , " d " , 8) .
flow (" d " , 6 , " d " , 8) .                            flow (" d " , 6 , " d " , 8) .
                                                                                                                

            (a) Predicates for Fig. 17a                               (b) Predicates for Fig. 17b                 
entryMap (" main " , 0 , " main " , 0) .
exitMap (8 , 8) .
                                                                                                                  
                  (c) Predicates capturing a correspondence between programs in Fig. 17

Fig. 18. Figure shows the predicates for programs in Fig. 17 according to the predicate list in Tab. 2. Note
that, for simplicity, the file name main.cpp is omitted for every predicate in this list.



uninitialization (as done in §4) required predicates that capture def-use and flow of values along
a single stack trace. In contrast, program equivalence requires predicates that can capture every
program flow, i.e., every trace or path in the program. We now discuss the design space for these
predicates and the challenges that must be addressed to produce a minimal predicate set for the
equivalence task.
Towards Verified Code Reasoning by LLMs                                                             17


  Modeling Dataflow Dependencies. Similar to the modeling of dataflow in the case of uninitialized
variables, we start designing the predicate set for answering program equivalence by capturing
dataflow dependencies using “def-use” (def, use) and “data flow” (flow) analysis from the program
analysis literature that capture the flow of values from one program point to another program
point. Note that we model constants as variables defined at the start of the program, typically on
Line 0, and these constants flow to different “uses” throughout the program.
   Modeling Control Dependencies. The control dependency information between two program
statements is also important to argue about equivalence and is captured using the controldep
predicate.
   Modeling Expressions and Library Functions. Data-flow analysis tracks how values move across
program points, but it cannot fully capture how values are computed. Expressions with identical
data-flow and control-dependencies may differ in operators, operand order, or function calls, leading
to different semantics.
   To address this, in an initial design, we treated expressions (that are not single variables) and
library calls as uninterpreted, non-deterministic functions, introducing new predicates (defWithExpr
and condWithExpr) to denote unique values. By default, program abstractions with such constructs
are treated as non-equivalent
   To reduce conservativeness, we instead ultimately chose to model expressions as unaryFun
or binaryFun, where the operator is the function symbol and operands are its arguments. This
approach is consistent with many programming languages (e.g., OCaml, Scala) [23], where operators
are already viewed as functions. Two expressions are then equivalent if they share the same operator
and their arguments are equivalent.
   Modeling Textual Differences. The equivalence analysis can be improved by accounting for textual
differences that are semantically equivalent between two programs. One can use the standard way
of variable-renaming or static single assignment [4]. We address this issue by using a predicate
varMap to capture the variable mapping between two variables that are only textually different
but semantically equivalent, such as varMap(x, p1, y, p2 ). This information is captured for every
variable pair that is only textually different at the point of the variable definition.
   Modeling Variables of Interest. As discussed in §5.1, we use predicate watchVar to capture the
variables in each program on which program equivalence is assessed. This predicate can be used to
list either only certain variables or all variables, depending on the definition of equivalence.
   The final step of the pipeline involves formal verification using Soufflé . The predicates obtained
from the formalizer, i.e., predicates for both programs and a correspondence between the programs,
along with the verification condition (as discussed in §5.1), are fed into Soufflé . The Soufflé engine
then checks the predicates against the verification condition and output whether the programs are
equivalent or not.

5.4   Iterative Formalization for Missing Predicate Synthesis
As discussed earlier, given two programs, an LLM-based agent is used as a formalizer to generate
logical predicates (instances like shown in Fig. 18) that capture code semantics and provide an
explanation using the generated predicates. However, as the code snippets become more complex
and the predicate set needed to capture the semantics increases, the agent sometimes fails to include
all the required predicates in its response.
   In our observation, when the LLM fails to use some predicates, these tend to be predicates that
are an artifact of our verification condition but are not fundamentally about equivalence. Some
examples of missing predicates include (a) the agent not generating calls to the watchVar predicate,
18             Meghana Sistla, Gogul Balakrishnan, Pat Rondon, José Cambronero, Michele Tufano, and Satish Chandra

                                                                                                                  
// check . h                                               // check . h
29| typedef struct {                                       29| typedef struct {
30| int * arr ;                                            30| int * __counted_by_or_null (1 << size )
31| int size ;                                                  arr ;
32|} Cache ;                                               31| int hash_bits ;
                                                           32|} Cache ;
// check . cpp
25| int CacheInit ( Cache * const cache ,                  // check . cpp
     int size ) {                                          25| int CacheInit ( Cache * const cache , int
26| const int cache_size = 1 << size ;                          size ) {
27| cache - > arr = ( int *) malloc (                      26| const int cache_size = 1 << size ;
28| ( int ) cache_size , sizeof (* cache - >               27| cache - > size = cache_size ;
     arr ) ) ;                                             28| cache - > arr = ( int *) malloc (
29| if ( cache - > arr == NULL ) {                         29| ( int ) cache_size , sizeof (* cache - > arr ) ) ;
30|       return 0;                                        30| if ( cache - > arr == NULL ) {
31| }                                                      31|       return 0;
32| cache - > size = size ;                                32| }
33| return 1;                                              33| return 1;
34|}                                                       34|}
                                                                                                                  
     (a) Code without -fbounds-safety annotation                 (b) Code with -fbounds-safety annotation

Fig. 19. Two code snippets (a) without -fbounds-safety annotation, (b) with -fbounds-safety annotation are
shown. Note that, compilation with -fbounds-safety flag requires updates to the array and associated counter
to be side-by-side and hence the order of assignments is changed in (b).


or (b) the agent skipping the generation of the use and flow predicates for every watchVar predicate
(this is primarily required for easy verification using a formal verification tool), etc. To overcome
this issue, we iteratively call the formalizer with the relevant code snippets and the predicates
generated so far. The formalizer agent is asked if the current predicate instance set (generated so
far) sufficiently captures the code semantics to answer the equivalence query, and if not, to generate
the predicate instances that “it thinks” are missing 2 .
   The predicates from every call to the formalizer are then consolidated by concatenating the
predicates, thereby filling the missing predicates.
  Stopping Criteria. The formalizer is run for a maximum of five times or when the LLM concludes
that the predicates are sufficient and stops generating new predicate instances, whichever is sooner.
  Verification Step checks if the generated predicate instances are sufficient. The verification step
checks if the generated predicate instances set is sufficient and outputs “inconclusive” if the
generated predicates are not sufficient.

5.5     Evaluation Dataset
To evaluate our approach, we used a dataset of 20 problems, manually picked, primarily from two
different domains:
      • CRQBench (12): We collected 12 examples from the CRQBench [6] dataset with problems
        checking for program equivalence. CRQBench is a benchmark of 100+ code reasoning
        questions obtained from contextualized code-review comments, of which we chose 12
        sample problems that are of type – "Is there a difference by changing . . . to . . . in the
        program. Explain your reasoning."
2 Note that we are only asking the LLM to generate predicate instances and not new predicate signatures.
Towards Verified Code Reasoning by LLMs                                                                 19




Fig. 20. Figure shows the fraction of problems from each category based on the agent’s response and the
verifier’s output. Notice that the agent hallucinates on 40% of the problems (8/20), with 75% of them being
caught by the verifier.



      • Fbounds-Safety (7): -fbounds-safety [29] is a C extension designed to prevent out-of-
        bounds (OOB) memory accesses by enforcing bounds safety. Along with adding the -
        fbounds-safety annotation to C code, the compiler, with the -fbounds-safety flag enabled,
        requires the annotated code to hold certain properties; for example, updates to pointers and
        associated counters must be made side by side. As a result, to make the C code memory-
        safe with the flag, the C code needs to be modified slightly, while ensuring that the code
        semantics are preserved. We selected seven sample programs, with and without annotations
        and code changes, to verify program equivalence. Fig. 19 shows an example with and
        without transformation with -fbounds-safety annotation.
  One additional example Fig. 21 is our own creation taken from an everyday task. Out of the 20
examples, 15 examples are chosen such that the current analysis is sufficient to completely and
correctly capture the code semantics. For the additional five examples, the current analysis is either
insufficient or the agent doesn’t extract enough relevant code to answer the equivalence query
correctly. These five examples are all taken from CRQBench.

5.6   Results
The equivalence analyzer is run on these 20 examples. The equivalence formalizer is then run on
the code snippets generated by the analyzer. The formalizer is run three times on all 20 examples to
understand how the formalizer generates predicates across different runs. The experiments are run
using Gemini 2.5 Pro [3] with single sampling, temperature(t) = 0.2 and top_p = 0.95 configuration.
   As discussed in §5.4, we run the formalizer iteratively till (hopefully) all the predicates required
to capture code semantics are generated. We observed that the agent always generates all the
required predicate instances across three runs. From hereon, we will only discuss the output of a
single run because we observed that every run leads to the same output.
   Fig. 20 shows the fraction of problems from each category based on the agent’s response and the
verifier’s output for the 20 examples. Each category is as follows (A = Agent Claims, V = Verifier):
      • A=no hallucination; V=validates: The agent doesn’t hallucinate; the verifier validates
        the agent’s response.
      • A=hallucinates; V=catches: The agent hallucinates; but the verifier catches the hallucina-
        tions.
20           Meghana Sistla, Gogul Balakrishnan, Pat Rondon, José Cambronero, Michele Tufano, and Satish Chandra


                                                 Agent’s Response (Agent Claims)
                                                      YES               NO
                                       YES     True Positive (3) False Negative (0)
                    Ground Truth
                                       NO      False Positive (6) True Negative (6)
Table 3. Agent’s Response vs Ground Truth for the 15 examples for which the predicate set is sufficient to
capture the semantics. The number in the bracket for every category indicates the number of examples that fall
into that category.




      • A=hallucinates; V=misses: The agent hallucinates; but the verifier misses catching the
        hallucinations.
      • A=no hallucination; V=incorrect output: The agent doesn’t hallucinate, but the verifier
        doesn’t validate the agent’s response; the verifier outputs a wrong answer.
   The percentage of examples where the agent does not hallucinate and the verifier validates
the result (blue sector: “A=no hallucination; V=validates”) is 9/20 = 45%. The agent hallucinates
in 8/20 = 40% of the examples (orange: “A=hallucinates; V=catches” and green: “A=hallucinates;
V=misses”), of which the verifier correctly flags 6/8 = 75% (orange). Thus, overall, the verifier
catches 6/20 = 30% of the agent’s errors. For the remaining two cases, the errors could be mitigated
with improved prompting or stronger models. Finally, in 3/20 = 15% of the examples (red: “A=no
hallucination; V=incorrect output”), the agent doesn’t hallucinate but verifier, though sound, itself
produces an incorrect result due to the incompleteness of the current analysis. These errors can be
reduced by enriching the vocabulary of the predicates, leading to more precise analysis (discussed
later in detail).
   We now explore each of these outcomes in more detail.
   We begin with the 15 examples where our analysis successfully captures the code semantics,
and then turn to the remaining 5 examples (see §5.5 for details).

  A=no hallucination; V=validates. For the question of “Are programs equivalent?” for the 15
examples, Tab. 3 shows the agent’s response with respect to the ground truth. We can observe
that the agent’s response is consistent with the ground truth in a total of 12 cases – 3 examples
where the programs are equivalent and seven examples where they are not. In all 12 examples,
the verification step output is consistent with the agent’s claims and the ground truth, and this
provides the user confidence that the agent has substantiated its answer in a logically consistent
way. The number in the bracket for every category indicates the number of examples that fall into
that category.

  A=hallucinates; V=catches. In the case of the six examples where they are “False Positives”, the
agent claims that the programs are equivalent, whereas in reality, the programs were not equivalent.
This is particularly problematic as the agent hallucinates and falsely outputs that the programs
are equivalent. In all six examples, the verification step was able to catch these hallucinations and
output that the programs are not equivalent. This enables users to validate the agent’s output
instead of relying on it without scrutiny.
  The examples where the agent hallucinates fall into three categories:
     (1) The agent makes unwarranted assumptions about library functions.
     (2) The agent makes assumptions (that may or may not be true) beyond the provided code
         snippets.
     (3) The agent hallucinates about the code semantics.
Towards Verified Code Reasoning by LLMs                                                                  21


                                                  Agent’s Response (Agent Claims)
                                                       YES               NO
                                          YES   True Positive (3) False Negative (2)
                    Ground Truth
                                          NO    False Positive (0) True Negative (0)
Table 4. Agent’s Response vs Ground Truth for five examples where the current analysis is not sufficient to
answer the equivalence query correctly. The number in the bracket for every category indicates the number of
examples that fall into that category.




5.6.1 The agent makes unwarranted assumptions about library functions. Fig. 8 shows an example
where the agent makes unwarranted assumptions about library functions. The agent incorrectly
assumes that has_value and !IsEmpty are equivalent and as a result, variables ℎ𝑎𝑠_𝑣𝑎𝑙𝑢𝑒 and
is_empty are equivalent. Thereby, the agent concludes that the programs are equivalent. However,
in reality (on manual inspection), the functions are not semantically equivalent, and as a result, the
programs are not equivalent.
   Because the verification step captures the functions as uninterpreted functions and conservatively
declares them are not-equivalent due to differing function names, the verification step outputs that
the programs are not equivalent and thereby catches such hallucinations made by the agent.
5.6.2 The agent makes assumptions (that may or may not be true) beyond the provided code snippets.
Fig. 19 shows an example where the agent makes assumptions about program behavior beyond
the provided code snippets. In Fig. 19a, the variable cache->size on Line 32 is assigned after the
condition on Line 29, and in Fig. 19b, the same variable is defined on Line 27 before the condition
on Line 30. That is, the variable cache->size assignment in the first program is control-dependent
on the condition cache->arr == NULL evaluating to false, but the same variable does not have
the same control dependency in the second program, i.e., when the programs return on Line 30
and Line 31 respectively, the assignment of the variable cache->size in both programs is different.
As a result, the two programs are not equivalent.
   However, the agent assumes that the caller function would appropriately handle the variable
assignment cache->size when the two programs return on Lines 30 and 31, respectively, ensuring
that the program semantics remain the same. Based on this assumption, the agent incorrectly
concludes that the programs are equivalent.
   The verification step determines that the code snippets are not equivalent by identifying the
difference in the controldep predicates generated by the agent.
5.6.3 The agent hallucinates about the code semantics. Fig. 21 shows two programs in which the
condition in for loop on Line 7 are swapped. As a result, the program in Fig. 21a has a memory
access bug, and the program in Fig. 21b has no memory issues. When the agent is asked if the two
programs are equivalent, it hallucinates that the code snippets are equivalent, as shown in Fig. 21c.
The agent fails to consider all scenarios and falsely concludes that the programs are equivalent.
   The verification step outputs that the code snippets are not equivalent by using the controldep
predicates that capture the difference in control-dependency information, thereby catching the
agent’s hallucinations.
   Additional five examples where the current analysis is insufficient. As discussed earlier in the
section, five examples are such that either the agent doesn’t fully retrieve the relevant code snippets
to correctly answer equivalence, or the predicates are not precise enough to capture the information.
    Tabs. 4 and 5 show two tables that highlight the agent claims vs ground truth and verification
output vs ground truth for the five examples.
22           Meghana Sistla, Gogul Balakrishnan, Pat Rondon, José Cambronero, Michele Tufano, and Satish Chandra

                                                                                                                
// main . cpp                                             // main . cpp
5| absl :: StatusOr < unsigned > find (                   5| absl :: StatusOr < unsigned > find (
    unsigned start , char * str , char                        unsigned start , char * str , char
    goal ) {                                                  goal ) {
6| unsigned len = strlen ( str ) ;                        6| unsigned len = strlen ( str ) ;
7| for ( unsigned i = start ; str [ i ] != 0              7| for ( unsigned i = start ; i < len &&
      && i < len ; i ++) {                                    str [ i ] != 0; i ++) {
8| char * tmp = str ;                                     8| char * tmp = str ;
9| if ( tmp [ i ] == goal ) return i ;                    9| if ( tmp [ i ] == goal ) return i ;
10| }                                                     10| }
11| return absl :: NotFoundError ( " goal ␣               11| return absl :: NotFoundError ( " goal ␣
    not ␣ found " ) ;                                         not ␣ found " ) ;
12| }                                                     12| }
                                                                                                                

        (a) Code with memory access issue.                     (b) Code without memory access issue.          
    The two code snippets are semantically equivalent .
    ...
    5. ** Equivalence **:
    * In the ** Original Code ** , the loop continues if `str [ i ] != 0` AND `i <
    len `. When `i ` becomes equal to `len `, `str [ i]` is `\0`, so `str [ i ] != 0`
    becomes false , and the loop terminates .
    * In the ** Modified Code ** , the loop continues if `i < len ` AND `str [ i ]
    != 0 `. When `i ` becomes equal to `len `, the first condition `i < len ` becomes
    false . Due to short - circuiting , the second condition (` str [ i ] != 0 `) is not
    evaluated , and the loop terminates .
    In both scenarios , the loop iterates over the exact same range of indices ( from
    `start ` to `len - 1 `) . The termination condition is met at the same point (`i
    == len `) .
                                                                                                              
              (c) Excerpt from agent’s explanation for the equivalence query of the programs.

Fig. 21. Two code snippets (a) with a memory access issue, (b) without any memory access issue are shown.
The swap of conditions str[i]! = 0 and i < len in (a) causes the memory issue. (c) shows an excerpt from
the agent’s explanation on why the programs are equivalent.

                                                        Verification Output
                                                      YES                NO
                                       YES     True Positive (0) False Negative (3)
                     Agent Claims
                                       NO      False Positive (0) True Negative (2)
Table 5. Agent Claims vs Verification Output for five examples where the current analysis is not sufficient to
answer the equivalence query correctly. The number in the bracket for every category indicates the number of
examples that fall into that category.



   A=no hallucination; V=incorrect output. Of the five examples, there are three examples where
the agent claims are consistent with the ground truth that the programs are equivalent. However,
for the same examples, the verification step output says that the programs are not equivalent. This
is because the current predicate set is not precise enough to capture this equivalence information.
   In example Fig. 22, a switch statement in Fig. 22a is changed to if − elseif − else statement
in Fig. 22b and the agent is asked if the programs are equivalent, and to generate code snippets
for the same. Though the agent correctly answers equivalence, the predicates generated are not
Towards Verified Code Reasoning by LLMs                                                                      23

                                                                                                               
// main . cpp                                             // main . cpp
147: // 3)                                                147: // 3)
148: switch ( checker ) {                                 148: if ( checker == A ) {
149: case A :                                             149:      counter - > Increment ( " A " ) ;
150:      counter - > Increment ( " A " ) ;               150:      return " A1 " ;
151:      return " A1 " ;                                 151: } else if ( checker == B ) {
152: case B :                                             152:      counter - > Increment ( " B " ) ;
153:      counter - > Increment ( " B " ) ;               153:      return " B1 " ;
154:      return " B1 " ;                                 154: }
155: default :                                            155:
156:      break ;                                         156: // 4)
157: }                                                    157: counter - > Increment ( " C " ) ;
158:                                                      158: return " C1 " ;
159: // 4)                                                                                                       
160: counter - > Increment ( " C " ) ;
                                                                (b) Code snippet with if − else statement.
161: return " C1 " ;
                                                     
      (a) Code snippet with switch statement.

Fig. 22. Two semantically equivalent code snippets are shown where (a) uses a switch statement and (b)
uses an if − else statement.

                                                                                                               
// main . cpp                                             // main . cpp
161: // Make the Request .                                161: // Make the Request .
162: response =                                           162: response =
163: fetcher . value () -> Fetch ( request ) ;            163: fetcher - > Fetch ( request ) ;
164:                                                      164:
165: if (! response . ok () ) {                           165: if (! response . ok () ) {
166: absl :: PrintF ( " Error " ) ;                       166: absl :: PrintF ( " Error " ) ;
167: return EXIT_FAILURE ;                                167: return EXIT_FAILURE ;
168: }                                                    168: }
                                                                                                               
    (a) Code snippet with a call to value function.           (b) Code snippet with no call to value function.

        Fig. 23. Two code snippets are shown where (a) has a call to a value function and (b) doesn’t.



precise enough to compute equivalence in Soufflé . For example, the agent generates a predicate
that Line 153 control-depends on Line 152, but according to the provided predicate list, it generates
a “use” predicate for variable checker at Line 148 which has “no relation” to the Line 152 that is
used in computing equivalence. As a result, Soufflé outputs that the programs are not equivalent.

   A=hallucinates; V=misses. The remaining two examples fall into the category where the agent
claims that the programs are not equivalent, but the ground truth states that the programs are
equivalent. In these cases, the verification step also concludes that the programs are not equivalent.
This is because the agent doesn’t retrieve all the relevant code snippets (functions, callers, etc.) to
answer the equivalence query.
   Fig. 23 shows two programs with the only difference being the call to the method value. The
agent doesn’t retrieve the function body for value and, as a result, concludes that the programs are
not equivalent. The verification step also shows that the programs are not equivalent, conservatively.
However, the ground truth check shows that the programs are indeed equivalent.
24           Meghana Sistla, Gogul Balakrishnan, Pat Rondon, José Cambronero, Michele Tufano, and Satish Chandra




Fig. 24. Figure shows the number of times the agent doesn’t generate all the required predicates leading to
an “Inconclusive” output by the verifier.


5.6.4 Ablations: We evaluate the effect of using an iteratively running the formalizer to generate
missing predicates. We run the formalizer in two configurations:
      • Mode 1: Formalizer run once to generate predicates
      • Mode 2: Formalizer re-run iteratively (a maximum of five times) to generate missing predi-
        cate
As discussed earlier, on running the agent in Mode 2, the agent always generates all the required
predicates. In the case of Mode 1, Fig. 24 shows the number of times the agent fails to generate all
the required predicates on a single run. We can observe that there are seven examples with at least
one run where the agent doesn’t generate all the predicates necessary, leading to an “inconclusive”
state. On running the agent more times (in Mode 2), all the required predicates are then generated,
and the verification output across all runs turns out to be consistent. This concludes the necessity
of running the agent in Mode 2, i.e., running formalizer iteratively to generate missing predicates.

6    THREATS TO VALIDITY AND DISCUSSION
It is worth keeping in mind that we inherit the limitations of static analysis via Datalog. Thus, we
cannot circumvent the undecidability of program equivalence, just because we are using LLMs! To
remind the reader, what we are doing in this work is to simply act as a post facto check to what an
LLM says in its reasoning. Currently, the system does it well in some cases and not in others, but
we believe that the overall "trust" can be increased in this way.
    Engineers are increasingly relying on LLMs to explain code to them, and therefore, a high degree
of trust in those explanations is crucial. We have presented an approach to reducing the instances
of misleading information going to the user. However, it still suffers from false positives and false
negatives, and more work is required to minimize these, so engineers can have more trust in LLM’s
reasoning about code. We expect improvements needed, for instance, in the design of predicates, in
prompts to generate these predicates, and perhaps in an ability to select more powerful verifiers
when the reasoning needs exceed the power of Datalog itself. There are also possibilities of (1)
asking the LLM to revise its explanation upon verification failure, and (2) even of fine-tuning the
LLM to produce more verifiable explanations in the first place, which should be of great interest to
providers of LLMs.
Towards Verified Code Reasoning by LLMs                                                             25


7   RELATED WORK
Reasoning capabilities of LLMs. There is a growing body of research focused on improving the
reliability of LLMs, particularly in quantitative reasoning domains. A prominent approach involves
autoformalization, where an LLM translates informal problem statements into a formal language
that can be machine-verified. This is primarily done by prompting an LLM to generate Isabelle
code for mathematical problems for automatic verification [35]. Similarly, [13] uses LLMs to map
informal proofs to formal sketches, which then guide automated theorem provers. Other works,
such as [14, 16] focus on converting natural language to first-order logic and using SMR solvers for
logical fallacy detection. Another work, CODEPLAN [31], focuses on encoding the reasoning tasks
in the form of code plans to capture rich semantics and perform reasoning tasks. They demonstrate
that using a codeplan improves the reasoning abilities on a set of (non-code) reasoning tasks.
Our work builds on this paradigm, but instead of focusing on mathematical or general logical
reasoning, we apply the principle of formal verification to the domain of code reasoning. [2] is
another analogous work on the “verification” aspect, but in the context of transpilation or lifting.
Code Execution Reasoning Methods. There have also been works on code execution reasoning
with the development of frameworks like CodeMind [17] that evaluate LLMs’ capabilities for code
reasoning on various tasks such as output prediction and specification adherence. ExeRScope [18]
uses static analysis to correlate model errors with the code’s syntactic properties, such as program
complexity or recursion depth. Other methods, such as NExT [22] aim to directly enhance these
reasoning capabilities by fine-tuning models on execution traces paired with natural language
rationales. [32] shows techniques that demonstrate (1) how code helps with reasoning in LLMs and
(2) how reasoning helps to improve code generation.
Benchmarks. There also have been other benchmarks that try to evaluate the reasoning capabilities
of LLMs. CodeMMLU [20] demonstrates this using a benchmark of multiple-choice questions
covering the topics of code comprehension and software development. CRUXEval [10] measures
the execution ability of LLMs, by containing a benchmark of 800 functions with input-output pairs
with the goal of producing the output given the input and produces an input that matches the
output for the function. [28], [19] are benchmarks aimed at generating proofs in LEAN for programs
and specifications. Another benchmark [30] introduces 2400 program pairs for evaluating LLMs
on equivalence checking. We use [6] that consist of 100+ code-reasoning questions derived from
contextualized code review comments.
Program Equivalence. A widely studied topic in the program analysis and verification liter-
ature is program equivalence. Early works on defining and analysis equivalence use symbolic
techniques [7, 11, 12], bisimulation methods (survey: [8]), translation validation [15, 26] and other
formal techniques. More recently LLMs have been used for the task of program equivalence as
shown in [1].


8   CONCLUSION
In this work, we introduced a novel method to automatically validate a code reasoning agent’s
answers by formalizing and verifying their reasoning steps. We described the overall framework of
extracting AgentClaims (a formal representation of the agent’s response) and verifying it against a
VerificationCondition in a formal, deterministic tool. We showed our approach in the context of
uninitialized variables detected by sanitizers and program equivalence queries. For the benchmark
of 20 uninitialized variables, the formal verification step was able to validate the agent’s reasoning
on 13/20 examples. For a set of 20 program equivalence queries, taken primarily from CRQBench
and Fbounds-Safety, we found that our approach successfully caught 6/8 incorrect agent judgments
26             Meghana Sistla, Gogul Balakrishnan, Pat Rondon, José Cambronero, Michele Tufano, and Satish Chandra


and validated the agent’s response in 9/20 cases. For the remaining five cases, the analysis and
model prompting can be improved, leading to better results.

REFERENCES
 [1] Miltiadis Allamanis and Pengcheng Yin. Disproving program equivalence with llms. arXiv preprint arXiv:2502.18473,
     2025.
 [2] Sahil Bhatia, Jie Qiu, Niranjan Hasabnis, Sanjit A. Seshia, and Alvin Cheung. Verified code transpilation with llms.
     In A. Globerson, L. Mackey, D. Belgrave, A. Fan, U. Paquet, J. Tomczak, and C. Zhang, editors, Advances in Neural
     Information Processing Systems, volume 37, pages 41394–41424. Curran Associates, Inc., 2024.
 [3] Gheorghe Comanici, Eric Bieber, Mike Schaekermann, Ice Pasupat, Noveen Sachdeva, Inderjit Dhillon, Marcel Blistein,
     Ori Ram, Dan Zhang, Evan Rosen, et al. Gemini 2.5: Pushing the frontier with advanced reasoning, multimodality,
     long context, and next generation agentic capabilities. arXiv preprint arXiv:2507.06261, 2025.
 [4] Ron Cytron, Jeanne Ferrante, Barry K Rosen, Mark N Wegman, and F Kenneth Zadeck. Efficiently computing static
     single assignment form and the control dependence graph. ACM Transactions on Programming Languages and Systems
     (TOPLAS), 13(4):451–490, 1991.
 [5] Oege De Moor, Mathieu Verbaere, Elnar Hajiyev, Pavel Avgustinov, Torbjorn Ekman, Neil Ongkingco, Damien Sereni,
     and Julian Tibble. Keynote address:. ql for source code analysis. In Seventh IEEE International Working Conference on
     Source Code Analysis and Manipulation (SCAM 2007), pages 3–16. IEEE, 2007.
 [6] Elizabeth Dinella, Satish Chandra, and Petros Maniatis. Crqbench: A benchmark of code reasoning questions. arXiv
     preprint arXiv:2408.08453, 2024.
 [7] Jeanne Ferrante, Karl J Ottenstein, and Joe D Warren. The program dependence graph and its use in optimization.
     ACM Transactions on Programming Languages and Systems (TOPLAS), 9(3):319–349, 1987.
 [8] Hubert Garavel and Frédéric Lang. Equivalence checking 40 years after: A review of bisimulation tools. A Journey
     from Process Algebra via Timed Automata to Model Learning: Essays Dedicated to Frits Vaandrager on the Occasion of His
     60th Birthday, pages 213–265, 2022.
 [9] Todd J Green, Shan Shan Huang, Boon Thau Loo, Wenchao Zhou, et al. Datalog and recursive query processing.
     Foundations and Trends® in Databases, 5(2):105–195, 2013.
[10] Alex Gu, Baptiste Rozière, Hugh Leather, Armando Solar-Lezama, Gabriel Synnaeve, and Sida I Wang. Cruxeval: A
     benchmark for code reasoning, understanding and execution. arXiv preprint arXiv:2401.03065, 2024.
[11] Susan Horwitz. Identifying the semantic and textual differences between two versions of a program. In Proceedings of
     the ACM SIGPLAN 1990 conference on Programming language design and implementation, pages 234–245, 1990.
[12] Susan Horwitz and Thomas Reps. The use of program dependence graphs in software engineering. In Proceedings of
     the 14th international conference on Software engineering, pages 392–411, 1992.
[13] Albert Q Jiang, Sean Welleck, Jin Peng Zhou, Wenda Li, Jiacheng Liu, Mateja Jamnik, Timothée Lacroix, Yuhuai Wu,
     and Guillaume Lample. Draft, sketch, and prove: Guiding formal theorem provers with informal proofs. arXiv preprint
     arXiv:2210.12283, 2022.
[14] Pascal Kesseli, Peter O’Hearn, and Ricardo Silveira Cabral. Logic. py: Bridging the gap between llms and constraint
     solvers. arXiv preprint arXiv:2502.15776, 2025.
[15] Sudipta Kundu, Zachary Tatlock, and Sorin Lerner. Proving optimizations correct using parameterized program
     equivalence. ACM Sigplan Notices, 44(6):327–337, 2009.
[16] Abhinav Lalwani, Tasha Kim, Lovish Chopra, Christopher Hahn, Zhijing Jin, and Mrinmaya Sachan. Autoformalizing
     natural language to first-order logic: A case study in logical fallacy detection. arXiv preprint arXiv:2405.02318, 2024.
[17] Changshu Liu, Shizhuo Dylan Zhang, Ali Reza Ibrahimzada, and Reyhaneh Jabbarvand. Codemind: A framework to
     challenge large language models for code reasoning. arXiv e-prints, pages arXiv–2402, 2024.
[18] Changshu Liu and Reyhan Jabbarvand. A tool for in-depth analysis of code execution reasoning of large language
     models. In Proceedings of the 33rd ACM International Conference on the Foundations of Software Engineering, pages
     1178–1182, 2025.
[19] Evan Lohn and Sean Welleck. minicodeprops: a minimal benchmark for proving code properties. arXiv preprint
     arXiv:2406.11915, 2024.
[20] Dung Nguyen Manh, Thang Phan Chau, Nam Le Hai, Thong T Doan, Nam V Nguyen, Quang Pham, and Nghi DQ Bui.
     Codemmlu: A multi-task benchmark for assessing code understanding & reasoning capabilities of codellms. arXiv
     preprint arXiv:2410.01999, 2024.
[21] James Hiram Morris. Lambda-calculus models of programming languages. PhD thesis, Massachusetts Institute of
     Technology, 1969.
[22] Ansong Ni, Miltiadis Allamanis, Arman Cohan, Yinlin Deng, Kensen Shi, Charles Sutton, and Pengcheng Yin. Next:
     Teaching large language models to reason about code execution. arXiv preprint arXiv:2404.14662, 2024.
Towards Verified Code Reasoning by LLMs                                                                                     27


[23] OCaml. Operators · ocaml documentation. https://ocaml.org/docs/operators. Accessed: 2025-09-18.
[24] Bernhard Scholz, Herbert Jordan, Pavle Subotić, and Till Westmann. On fast large-scale program analysis in datalog.
     In Proceedings of the 25th International Conference on Compiler Construction, pages 196–206, 2016.
[25] Evangelia Spiliopoulou, Riccardo Fogliato, Hanna Burnsky, Tamer Soliman, Jie Ma, Graham Horwood, and Miguel
     Ballesteros. Play favorites: A statistical method to measure self-bias in llm-as-a-judge. arXiv preprint arXiv:2508.06709,
     2025.
[26] Ross Tate, Michael Stepp, Zachary Tatlock, and Sorin Lerner. Equality saturation: a new approach to optimization.
     In Proceedings of the 36th annual ACM SIGPLAN-SIGACT symposium on Principles of programming languages, pages
     264–276, 2009.
[27] Gemini Team, Petko Georgiev, Ving Ian Lei, Ryan Burnell, Libin Bai, Anmol Gulati, Garrett Tanzer, Damien Vincent,
     Zhufeng Pan, Shibo Wang, et al. Gemini 1.5: Unlocking multimodal understanding across millions of tokens of context.
     arXiv preprint arXiv:2403.05530, 2024.
[28] Amitayush Thakur, Jasper Lee, George Tsoukalas, Meghana Sistla, Matthew Zhao, Stefan Zetzsche, Greg Durrett,
     Yisong Yue, and Swarat Chaudhuri. Clever: A curated benchmark for formally verified code generation. arXiv preprint
     arXiv:2505.13938, 2025.
[29] The Clang Team. Clang 18.1.1 documentation: -fbounds-safety: Enforcing bounds safety for C, 2024. Available at:
     https://releases.llvm.org/18.1.1/tools/clang/docs/BoundsSafety.html.
[30] Anjiang Wei, Jiannan Cao, Ran Li, Hongyu Chen, Yuhui Zhang, Ziheng Wang, Yuan Liu, Thiago SFX Teixeira, Diyi
     Yang, Ke Wang, et al. Equibench: Benchmarking large language models’ understanding of program semantics via
     equivalence checking. arXiv preprint arXiv:2502.12466, 2025.
[31] Jiaxin Wen, Jian Guan, Hongning Wang, Wei Wu, and Minlie Huang. Unlocking reasoning potential in large langauge
     models by scaling code-form planning. arXiv preprint arXiv:2409.12452, 2024.
[32] Dayu Yang, Tianyang Liu, Daoan Zhang, Antoine Simoulin, Xiaoyi Liu, Yuwei Cao, Zhaopu Teng, Xin Qian, Grey
     Yang, Jiebo Luo, et al. Code to think, think to code: A survey on code-enhanced reasoning and reasoning-driven code
     intelligence in llms. arXiv preprint arXiv:2502.19411, 2025.
[33] Shunyu Yao, Jeffrey Zhao, Dian Yu, Nan Du, Izhak Shafran, Karthik Narasimhan, and Yuan Cao. React: Synergizing
     reasoning and acting in language models. In International Conference on Learning Representations (ICLR), 2023.
[34] Hongli Zhou, Hui Huang, Yunfei Long, Bing Xu, Conghui Zhu, Hailong Cao, Muyun Yang, and Tiejun Zhao. Mitigating
     the bias of large language model evaluation. In China National Conference on Chinese Computational Linguistics, pages
     451–462. Springer, 2024.
[35] Jin Peng Zhou, Charles Staats, Wenda Li, Christian Szegedy, Kilian Q Weinberger, and Yuhuai Wu. Don’t trust:
     Verify–grounding llm quantitative reasoning with autoformalization. arXiv preprint arXiv:2403.18120, 2024.
28            Meghana Sistla, Gogul Balakrishnan, Pat Rondon, José Cambronero, Michele Tufano, and Satish Chandra

                                                                                                                   
The allocation of `op ` happens on line 272 in ` LogTest_BadBytes_Test :: TestBody () `:
````c ++
272| Log op ;
````c ++
This `Log ` object `op ` is used in the ` LogTest :: BadBytes ` test case . The `DoWork `
    method of this `op ` object is called on line 285:

...
To fix this , Log :: Init needs to be called before Log :: Start in the ` LogTest ::
    BadBytes ` test .
                                                                                                                   

           Fig. 25. Figure shows an excerpt from the agent response for a code-reasoning question.


A     APPENDICES
A.1     System Prompt for Basic Code Reasoning Agent
Fig. 26 shows the system prompt that was used for a basic code reasoning agent. Here are a few
insights about the prompt:
       • Asking the model to include relevant code snippets in the prompt is necessary for the
         subsequent trace extraction steps.
       • It is essential to keep the examples in the system prompt as generic as possible. Otherwise,
         the model loses generality.
     Fig. 25 shows an excerpt from the agent’s extracted response for a code-reasoning question.

A.2     More details on errors in LLM reasoning
We provide further experiments illustrating systematic errors in LLM reasoning on program
equivalence.
   §2.3 discusses a scenario where the agent makes unwarranted assumptions about library behavior.
Even after the agent is provided with the definitions for has_value() and IsEmpty() as shown
in Fig. 27; the agent continues to hallucinate and incorrectly reason about the program equivalence.

A.3     System Prompts for MSAN Uninitialized Variables Query
This section shows the prompts used in the uninitialized memory sanitizer tasks.
   Fig. 28 shows the system prompt for extracting a code trace from the agent’s output for MSAN
tasks.
   Fig. 29 shows the system instruction for generating a formal representation of a trace for MSAN
tasks. The system instruction contains a vocabulary of formal predicates to use when generating a
formal representation of the trace.

A.4     Supplementary Experiments for MSAN Bugs
A.4.1 Manual Judgment of Code Reasoning Agent Output. In this section, we briefly discuss some
additional experiments and analysis of using our approach for MSAN bugs.
  As discussed in §4.3, we ran the code reasoning agent on 20 MSAN examples five times and
manually evaluated whether the agent’s response is valid or invalid. During the evaluation, a
human expert reviewed the agent’s trajectories and cross checked it against the underlying code
and error message. Fig. 30 shows the output of the manual evaluation.
  Out of the 100 runs of the agent, 88 runs had a valid explanation based on human judgment, as
shown in Fig. 30. The code reasoning agent was able to generate a valid explanation for the vast
Towards Verified Code Reasoning by LLMs                                                            29

                                                                                                       
Your task is to answer a question related to code that a software developer is
working on .

Guidelines :
 1. Think step - by - step .
 2. You have not seen this code . You * must * confirm all your assumptions by
    examining the source code using the available tools . You * must * use the
    ` code_search ` tool or the `cat ` tool to find all the relevant source code to
      answer the questions . For `cat `, you do not need the google3 prefix .

Output instructions :
 1. Explain what you are doing at every step in your response .
 2. Include relevant code snippets and refer to them in your explanation .
 3. Be explicit about the program variables , members , and functions in your
    explanations .
 4. You * must * include the filename in your code snippets .
 5. Be explicit about the line numbers in your explanations .
 6. It is very important to include code snippets . Do not forget that .

Example #1:

I have retrieved the code for `foo . cc `. There is a use of uninitialized value at
line 106. Either `i ` or `j ` is uninitialized .

```c ++
  // foo . cc
  106|     some_fun (i , j ) ;
```
I need to look at how i and j are defined and if there are any subsequent
initializations .

Example #2:

I have retrieved the code for bar . cc . From the code , I can see that 'j ' is
initialized , but 'i ' is not initialized after line 7 of bar . cc :

```c ++
  // bar . cc
  6|    int i ;
  7|    int j = 10;
```
                                                                                                       

                          Fig. 26. System prompt for the Code Reasoning Agent.


majority of the MSAN bugs, which is not entirely surprising, because, as explained earlier, this is
a simplified version of the code reasoning problem. Nevertheless, MSAN bugs serve as a useful
dataset to check the feasibility of the approach. Moreover, even in the simplified problem, the agent
makes mistakes for some bugs, and therefore, having an automated check of the agent’s response
is still valuable.
A.4.2 Automatic validation using Gemini 2.5 Pro. As an additional experiment, we also performed
the formalization step using Gemini 2.5 Pro, and the results are much better even for a single
step. In particular, the Gemini 2.5 Pro model was able to prove the validity of 27 out of 88 valid
explanations even with a single iteration, as shown in Fig. 31.
30           Meghana Sistla, Gogul Balakrishnan, Pat Rondon, José Cambronero, Michele Tufano, and Satish Chandra

                                                                                                                
// main . cpp                                           // main . cpp
...                                                     ...
80: bool has_value =                                    80: bool is_empty =
81:         session_input . has_value () ;              81:         IsEmpty ( session_input ) ;
82: if ( has_value ) {                                  82: if (! is_empty ) {
83:   status . check = 0;                               83:   status . check = 0;
84:   status . type =                                   84:   status . type =
85:       GetType ( session_input . value () ) ;        85:       GetType ( session_input . value () ) ;
86: }                                                   86: }
...                                                     ...

2: constexpr bool has_value () const {                  4. bool IsEmpty ( const Message & message ) {
3. return this - > has_data ;                           5. return message . ByteSizeLong () == 0;
4. }                                                    6. }
                                                                                                                
 (a) Code Snippet 1 using has_value method; addi-       (b) Code Snippet 2 using IsEmpty method; additionally
tionally the function for has_value is provided.       the function for IsEmpty is provided.               
 The two code snippets are semantically equivalent .
 ...
 3. ** Comparison **:
     *   The condition to enter the `if ` block in the ** original code ** is `
         session_input . has_value () == true `, which means the session has data .
     *   The condition to enter the `if ` block in the ** modified code ** is `!
         IsEmpty ( session_input ) `, which also means the session has data .

 Since the condition for executing the code block on lines 83 -86 is identical in
     both versions ( i . e . , the ` session_input ` object is not empty ) , and the code
     within the block is unchanged , the two snippets are functionally equivalent .
      The change is a refactoring from a member method (` has_value `) to a free
     function (` IsEmpty `) with the corresponding logical inversion at the call
     site .
                                                                                                             
(c) Incorrect LLM explanation for program equivalence query; the agent makes incorrect assumptions about
has_value and IsEmpty semantics.
Fig. 27. The two code snippets from Fig. 8 are shown with the definitions for has_value() and IsEmpty()
where the condition at Line 82 is obtained by checking for has_value() in Code 1 and IsEmpty() in Code 2.


A.5    System Prompts for Program Equivalence Query
This section shows the system prompts used in the program equivalence tasks.
  Listing. 1 shows the system instruction given to the Equivalence Analyzer to extract relevant
code snippets and an explanation if the programs are equivalent or not.
  The system instruction for the Formalizer to generate the predicates for the code snippets and
an explanation of equivalence using the generated predicates is shown in Listing. 2.
Towards Verified Code Reasoning by LLMs                                                                31

                                                                                                           
Guidelines :
* You will be given an explanation of why a memory error happened .
* You will also be given the relevant code snippets .
* As a first step , associate all the text in the explanation to the given
  code snippets .
* After associating the explanations to the code snippets , extract a trace
  that shows how the memory error manifests itself .
* The explanation may gloss over some details of the control and data
  flow . Use the code snippets to fill in any missing links in the data
  and control flow so that the trace is complete .
* Make sure you extract all information about data flow and control flow
  in the explanation and associate with the code lines in the trace .
* Show how the data flows between the lines in the trace in terms of the
  variables from the code snippets .
* Show the actual lines from the code snippet .

Example :

    //    `x ` is being used .
    //    a / b / c / d . cc
    303   |       foo ( x )
    ...
    //        x flows to y , x flows to z
    350   |      y, z = x

    // `x ` flows to `a `
    // another / file / fork . cc
    923 | foo ( int a ) {{
    924 | ...
    // 'a ' flows to 'y '
    925 |     y = a
    ...
    // y is read here and causes memory error
    949 |     read ( y )

FILE_CONTEXT :
  { file_context }
EXPLANATION :
  { explanation }
                                                                                                           

          Fig. 28. System Instruction for extracting a trace for MSAN bugs from agent’s explanation.
32          Meghana Sistla, Gogul Balakrishnan, Pat Rondon, José Cambronero, Michele Tufano, and Satish Chandra

                                                                                                                 
You will be given a code trace along with some text associated with the
code lines . Your task is to convert the text lines in conjunction with the
code snippets into datalog .

Guidelines :
* Go line - by - line .
* Make sure you create the correct `flow ` and `use ` predicates so that
  the dataflow in the trace is explicitly captured .
* Consolidate all the datalog predicates and output them in the following
  format :
    `` datalog
...
    ``

You can use the following predicates :
* uses (" x " , " source " , line ) : expression `x ` is used at location " source : line ".
* uninitialized (" x " , " source " , line ) : expression `x ` is uninitialized at location
  " source : line " and may contain unknown or garbage values .
* hasInitializer (" f " , " m ") : Variable " f " has an initializer in " m ".
* hasMemberInitializer (" f " , " m ") : Constructor " m " has an initializer for member
     variable " f ".
* allocated (" x " , " source " , line ) : Memory referred to by " x " is allocated at
  location " source : line ".
* declared (" x " , " source " , line ) : Variable " x " is declared at location
  " source : line ".
* flow (" x " , " src_file_x " , line_x , " y " , " src_file_y " , line_y ) : The value of `x ` at
  defined at " src_file_x : line_x " flows to the " y " at " src_file_y : line_y ". A Flow
       is
  usually a result of definition reaching a use , an argument being passed at a
  call site , assignments , return values , etc .
* memoryError (" x " , " kind " , " source " , line ) : There is a `kind ` memory error
  involving `x ` at location " source : line ".

TRACE :
{ trace }
                                                                                                                 

       Fig. 29. System Instruction for generating formal representation of a trace for MSAN tasks.
Towards Verified Code Reasoning by LLMs                                                                  33




                    Fig. 30. Manual classification of the validity of agent’s explanation.




 Fig. 31. Results of automated validation using Gemini 2.5 Pro with 1 iteration of the formalization step.
34          Meghana Sistla, Gogul Balakrishnan, Pat Rondon, José Cambronero, Michele Tufano, and Satish Chandra

                                                                                                                 
Additional Instructions :
  * Think step - by - step .
  * You have not seen this code . You * must * confirm all your assumptions by
      examining the source code using the available tools . You * must * use the
      ` code_search ` tool or the `cat ` tool to find all the relevant source code to
      answer the questions . For `cat `, you do not need the google3 prefix .
  * If you want to see the full contents of a file use `cat ` rather than code
    search .
  * Provide the relevant code snippets for the question .
  * To answer the user query and provide original and modified code snippets ,
    you will have to retrieve code using tools .
  * Explain what you are doing at every step in your response .
  * Include relevant code snippets and refer to them in your explanation .
  * Be explicit about the program variables , members , and functions in your
      explanations .
  * You * must * include the filename in your code snippets .
  * Be explicit about the line numbers in your explanations .
  * It is very important to include code snippets . Do not forget that .
  * Get as much code as possible that will help you to answer the query .
  * For the code change requested in the query , create a modified code snippet .
     You should only modify the part of the code snippet requested in the query
          and nothing else .
  * Include all the pieces of code necessary to answer the user query .
  * Include atleast a few lines of the surrounding code .
  * Explain if the code semantics remains intact or not and reason about it .
     You * should * only discuss about the ** functional equivalence ** and nothing
     else .
  * Add line numbers to the original code and modified code .
     Make sure that the line numbers of the original code and modified code
     are the consistent . The line numbers should be adjacent to the code as
     1: < code_statement >
     2: < code_statement >
     ...

     ### Example #1:

     I have retrieved the code for `foo . cc `. There is a use of uninitialized value
         at
     line 106. Either `i ` or `j ` is uninitialized .

     ```c ++
       // foo . cc
       106|     some_fun (i , j ) ;
     ```

     I need to look at how `i ` and `j ` are defined and if there are any subsequent
     initializations .

     ### Example #2:

     I have retrieved the code for `foo . cc `. I need to look at bar () function if
     it is relevant and retrieve the code for that .

     ```c ++
       // foo . cc
       106|     a = b . bar () ;
Towards Verified Code Reasoning by LLMs                                                                    35


      ```

      I now have to look at the class methods of object b and retrieve the code for
          bar () .
      I should also look at where b is defined .

    * You ** must ** retrieve the body of functions from " absl ::" library using
        code_search tool for
      those functions that are present in one code snippet and absent in another
            code snippet .
      You must add this code snippet from the library call to " < Original Code > ...
            </ Original Code >" or
        " < Modified Code > ... </ Modified Code >"
    * You must look at lines before and after the annotated part of code and add it
        to " < Original Code > ... </ Original Code >" or
        " < Modified Code > ... </ Modified Code >" as required .
    * If there is a function call common to both code snippets , you must add it to
        Common Code section .
    * You must retrieve every piece of code and put them in " < Original Code > ... </
        Original Code >" ,
        " < Modified Code > ... </ Modified Code >" or " < Common Code > ... </ Common Code
               >".
    * If you do not do this , you will be heavily penalized .

    Additional Output Guidelines :
      Your final output should be as follows .
      You should output the relevant code snippets from original and modified code ,
      including all the library functions that are required for analysis .
      ** DO NOT ADD ANY EXTRA TEXT AS COMMENTS **. You will be penalized if you
      do not use the following format .
         < Original Code >
         </ Original Code >

        < Modified Code >
        </ Modified Code >

        < Common Code >
        </ Common Code >

        < Explanation >
        </ Explanation >
                                                                                                                
Listing 1. System Instruction for Equivalence Analyzer to output the relevant code snippets and an explanation
if the programs are equivalent or not.
                                                                                                                
You are an expert software developer . You are now given two code snippets
-- code 1 and code 2.

* The code snippets are very similar except for minor and local modifications .
* You are asked to create a use - def - control information flow for both code
    snippets .
* Use the following predicates * as is *
  * def ( x : str , src_file : str , line_number : int , code_num : str ) : Variable `x `
       is defined at
    ` line_number ` in ` src_file `. `x ` could be a variable 'v ' or member property
          like 'v .y '.
    Any change or update to `x ` needs to be captured using this predicate .
36           Meghana Sistla, Gogul Balakrishnan, Pat Rondon, José Cambronero, Michele Tufano, and Satish Chandra


       ` code_num ` indicates whether this predicate is for Code1 or Code2 . You should
       only use " Code1 " for code 1 and " Code2 " for code 2.
       Some function calls on variables can have side effects which update the
             variable state .
       You should capture this information .
       If a function call foo ( x ) updates `x ` or properties of `x `, you should capture
               this information .
       Do not use made - up variable names in the predicates or values of the variables
             .
     * use ( x : str , src_file : str , line_number : int , code_num : str ) : Variable `x `
           is used at
       ` line_number ` in ` src_file `. `x ` could be a variable 'v ' or member property
             like 'v .y '.
       For every use predicate , there should be a corresponding def predicate for the
               same variable .
       Do not use made - up variable names in the predicates or values of the variables
             .
       ` code_num ` indicates whether this predicate is for Code1 or Code2 . You should
       only use " Code1 " for code 1 and " Code2 " for code 2.
     * flow ( x : str , src_file : str , src_line : int , y , dst_file : str , dst_line : int ,
            code_num : str ) :
       The value of `x ` defined at
       ` src_line ` in ` src_file ` flows to the `y ` at ` dst_line ` in ` dst_file `.
       For every `x `, there should be a def (x , _ ) or a flow (_ ,_ , x , _ ) in your use -
             def information flow .
       A Flow is usually a result of
       ( i ) definition reaching a use for the same variable name ,
       ( ii ) an argument being passed at a call site ( may or may not have same
             variable name ) ,
       ( iii ) assignments ( x = y indicates flow from y to x ) ( may or may not have same
               variable name ) ,
             even if y and x have the same variable name , you ** must ** capture the flow
                  .
       ( iv ) return values ( may or may not have same variable name ) , etc .
       ` code_num ` indicates whether this predicate is for Code1 or Code2 . You should
       only use " Code1 " for code 1 and " Code2 " for code 2.
     * exit ( line : num , code_num : str ) : `line ` is where the main function returns ,
       You must generate the exit () predicate for every return in the " main () "
             function and no other function .
       This predicate is only added for the main relevant code snippet and not for
             code snippets added to support this code .
       ` code_num ` indicates whether this predicate is for Code1 or Code2 . You should
       only use " Code1 " for code 1 and " Code2 " for code 2.
     * entry ( func : str , line : num , code_num : str ) : `line ` is where the current code
            or function begins or the provided code snippet starts .
       If the `func ` is a " function " , then the `line ` is where the function
             definition starts .
       If the current function is not clear , then the `line ` is 0.
       ` code_num ` indicates whether this predicate is for Code1 or Code2 . You should
       only use " Code1 " for code 1 and " Code2 " for code 2.
     * controldep ( x : str , src_file : str , src_line : int , cond : str , branch : bool ,
           dst_file : str , dst_line : int , code_num : str ) :
       The value of `x ` defined at ` src_line ` in ` src_file ` * control - depends * on the
             expression `cond ` with choice `branch `
       at ` dst_line ` in ` dst_file `. The `cond ` could be " Entry : < function_name >" at
             the beginning of a function
Towards Verified Code Reasoning by LLMs                                                      37


     or the expression controlling `x ` at ` src_line `. `branch ` depends on " true "/"
         false " branch .
     The branch should be output as a string -- " true "/" false ".
     If the cond is the " Entry " , then `branch ` will always be true .
     For every def (`x `) , there should be a controldep (`x ` ,) in your output .
     A controldep is usually a result of conditionals ( if / else , while ) statements .

     The controldep predicate is also generated for every conditional . The variable
           `x `
     used in the condition at ` src_line ` in ` src_file ` * control - depends * on the
          expression `cond ` with choice `branch `
     at ` dst_line ` in ` dst_file `. You must create such predicates for every
          conditional statement .


     ` code_num ` indicates whether this predicate is for Code1 or Code2 . You should
     only use " Code1 " for code 1 and " Code2 " for code 2.

     Literature :
     A control dependency directly impacts data - flow analysis , as the set of
          possible values
     ( definitions ) that can reach a particular use of a variable is determined
     by the control - flow paths leading to that use . Essentially , control
          dependencies
     create the framework of paths along which data is tracked and analyzed .

  * defWithExpr ( x : str , src_file : str , line_number : int , code_num : str ) :
    Variable `x ` is defined at ` line_number ` in ` src_file ` with an expression .
    This predicate is only used when the assignment to `x ` is ** not ** a constant
    or simple variable assignment . This could imply that the right hand side of
         the
    assignment is a complex expression .
    ` code_num ` indicates whether this predicate is for Code1 or Code2 . You should
    only use " Code1 " for code 1 and " Code2 " for code 2.

     Whenever defWithExpr is used , the def predicate should be used as well .

  * isConstantValue ( x : str , code_num : str ) :
    Variable `x ` ( a number / enum etc .) is a constant value .
    ` code_num ` indicates whether this predicate is for Code1 or Code2 . You should
    only use " Code1 " for code 1 and " Code2 " for code 2.

  * unaryFun ( function_symbol : str , x : str , src_file : str , line1 : int , code_num :
       str )
    This predicate is generated whenever a defWithExpr or condWithExpr is created .
    This predicate represents an expression or library function with a unary
         operator
    ` function_symbol ` applied to `x `.
    Examples include : malloc ( a ) , !v , type ( a ) etc .
    ` code_num ` indicates whether this predicate is for Code1 or Code2 . You should
    only use " Code1 " for code 1 and " Code2 " for code 2.
    This predicate is generated only in cases of a complex expression or a
         function
    that is not present in the code snippet .

  * binaryFun ( function_symbol : str , x : str , y : str , src_file : str , line1 : int ,
      code_num : str )
38            Meghana Sistla, Gogul Balakrishnan, Pat Rondon, José Cambronero, Michele Tufano, and Satish Chandra


       This predicate is generated whenever a defWithExpr or condWithExpr is created .
       This predicate represents an expression or library function with a binary
            operator
       ` function_symbol ` applied to `x ` and `y `.
       Examples include : a + b , a * b , min (c , d) etc .
       ` code_num ` indicates whether this predicate is for Code1 or Code2 . You should
       only use " Code1 " for code 1 and " Code2 " for code 2.
       This predicate is generated only in cases of a complex expression or a
            function
       that is not present in the code snippet .

     * outputVar ( x : str , file : str , line : int , code_num : str )
       Variable `x ` is an important variable defined or used in the " main " program
       of code_num ( Code / Code2 ) that is necessary to answer the equivalence query .
       You ** must ** generate this predicate for every variable `x ` in the " main "
            program .
       This predicate is generated at `line ` in `file ` at the return of the " main "
            program .
       ` code_num ` indicates whether this predicate is for Code1 or Code2 . You should
       only use " Code1 " for code 1 and " Code2 " for code 2.

     * varMap ( x : str , x_file : str , line1 : int , " Code1 " : str , y : str , y_file : str ,
         line2 : int , " Code2 " : str ) :
       This predicate is generated ** only ** when there are two variables `x ` defined
           at `line1 ` in `x_file ` in Code1
       and `y ` defined at `line2 ` in `y_file ` in Code2 and they are equivalent except
            for textual differences , i .e ,
       for the same intent and same computation , `x ` was defined in Code1 and `y ` was
            defined in Code2 .

     * exitMap ( line1 : int , " Code1 " , str , line2 : int , " Code2 ": str ) : This predicate
       is generated to create a mapping between the exit ( line1 ) of Code1 and exit (
           line2 )
       of Code2 , i . e . , which exit ( or return from main ) in Code1 is similar to the
       exit ( or return from main ) in Code2 . You must create this for every return
           point
       in the main function .

     * entryMap ( line1 : int , " Code1 " , str , line2 : int , " Code2 ": str ) : This predicate
       is generated to create a mapping between the entry ( line1 ) of Code1 and entry (
           line2 )
       of Code2 , i . e . , which entry in Code1 is similar to the entry in Code2 .


       If you do not follow the signature of the predicates as mentioned , you will
       be penalized . You must represent strings within "" in the predicates .

       You should * only * use variables in the predicates . DO NOT treat function calls
            as variables .

       You must capture every flow in the code snippet .

       ** Some important points to ensure :
       - Every def (x , line ) of variable x predicate should have a corresponding flow (
           _ , line , x , line )
       from some variable ( same or different ) to x at that line OR it should have a
           corresponding
Towards Verified Code Reasoning by LLMs                                                 39


     defWithExpr (x , line ) predicate and unary / binary predicates depending on the
         RHS .
     - For every function call in the code snippet , if the function body is present
         , you ** must **
     analyse the function and generate the required predicates ( that will be useful
          in answering equivalence query ) .
     - You must generate the exit () predicate for every return in the " main () "
         function and no other function .
     - At every return point in the main () function , you must generate use ()
         predicates for all the ** important ** variables that you have
       used in your explanation of equivalence and there must be a flow predicate
           from the previous definition to
       this use for those variables .
     - You must generate the entry () predicate for every " main () " function .
     - If a variable is defined outside the scope of the provided snippet , you
         should
       assume it is defined elsewhere and add a def () at line where the main
           function starts ,
       it is the same line where entry () for " main " function is generated .
     - For every variable defined in and before the " main " program ,
       and at every return point of the " main " program ( where exit ( l ) is generated )
           ,
       you must add a use () and flow () predicates for all
       those variables . The flow () predicate should be from the previous def to the
             current use .
       If there are multiple flows for a variable , you must capture all of them .
       The dst_line should match the line number of the current use and in the
           generated
       exit predicate .
     - The outputVar () predicate should be generated for every " important " variable
       that effects the state of the final program and which is important in
           answering
       the equivalence query .
     - The use () and flow () predicates should be generated for every variable with
         outputVar ()
       predicate .


     Example 1: Consider a code snippet as follows :
     ```
     // s . cpp
     1. int x = 1;
     2. if ( val1 ) {
     3.     x = 2;
     4. }
     5. if ( val2 ) {
     6.     x = 3;
     7. }
     8. int y = x ;
     9. y = y ;
     ```

     The predicates would be :
     ```
     entry (0)
     def (" val1 " , " s . cpp " , 0) .
     def (" val2 " , " s . cpp " , 0) .
40           Meghana Sistla, Gogul Balakrishnan, Pat Rondon, José Cambronero, Michele Tufano, and Satish Chandra


     def (" x " , " s . cpp " , 1) .
     controldep (" x " , " s . cpp " , 1 , " Entry : main ", " true " , " s . cpp " , 0)
     use (" val1 " , " s . cpp " , 2) .
     flow (" val1 " , " s . cpp " , 0 , " val1 " , " s . cpp " , 2) .
     def (" x " , " s . cpp " , 3) .
     controldep (" x " , " s . cpp " , 3 , " val1 " , " true " , " s . cpp " , 2) .
     use (" val2 " , " s . cpp " , 5) .
     flow (" val2 " , " s . cpp " , 0 , " val2 " , " s . cpp " , 5) .
     controldep (" x " , " s . cpp " , 6 , " val2 " , " true " , " s . cpp " , 5) .
     def (" x " , " s . cpp " , 6) .
     flow (" x " , " s . cpp " , 1 , " x " , " s . cpp " , 8) .
     flow (" x " , " s . cpp " , 3 , " x " , " s . cpp " , 8) .
     flow (" x " , " s . cpp " , 5 , " x " , " s . cpp " , 8) .
     def (" y " , " s . cpp " , 8) .
     flow (" x " , " s . cpp " , 8 , " y " , " s . cpp " , 8) .
     use (" y " , " s . cpp " , 9) .
     flow (" y " , " s . cpp " , 8 , " y " , " s . cpp " , 9) .
     def (" y " , " s . cpp " , 9) .
     flow (" y " , " s . cpp " , 9 , " y " , " s . cpp " , 9) .
     exit (10)
     use (" x " , " s . cpp " , 10) .
     flow (" x " , " s . cpp " , 1 , " x " , " s . cpp " , 10) .
     flow (" x " , " s . cpp " , 3 , " x " , " s . cpp " , 10) .
     flow (" x " , " s . cpp " , 5 , " x " , " s . cpp " , 10) .
     use (" y " , " s . cpp " , 10) .
     flow (" y " , " s . cpp " , 9 , " y " , " s . cpp " , 10) .
     ```

     Example 2: Consider a code snippet as follows :
     ```
     // s . cpp
     1. int x = 1;
     2. bool c = x == 1;
     3. if ( c ) {
     4.     return ;
     5. }
     6. return ;
     ```

     The predicates would be :
     ```
     entry (0)
     def ("1" , " s . cpp " , 0) .
     isConstantValue ("1") .
     def (" x " , " s . cpp " , 1) .
     controldep (" x " , " s . cpp " , 1 , " Entry : main ", " true " , " s . cpp " , 0) .
     use ("1" , " s . cpp " , 1) .
     flow ("1" , " s . cpp " , 0 , "1" , " s . cpp " , 1) .
     flow ("1" , " s . cpp " , 0 , " x " , " s . cpp " , 1) .
     def (" c " , " s . cpp " , 2) .
     controldep (" c " , " s . cpp " , 2 , " Entry : main ", " true " , " s . cpp " , 0) .
     use (" x " , " s . cpp " , 2) .
     flow (" x " , " s . cpp " , 1 , " x " , " s . cpp " , 2) .
     flow ("1" , " s . cpp " , 0 , "1" , " s . cpp " , 2) .
     defWithExpr (" c " , " s . cpp " , 2) .
     binaryFun ("==" , " x " , "1" , " s . cpp " , 2) .
     use (" c " , " s . cpp " , 3) .
Towards Verified Code Reasoning by LLMs                                             41


     flow (" c " , " s . cpp " , 2 ,   " c " , " s . cpp " , 3) .
     exit (4) ;
     use (" c " , " s . cpp " , 5) .
     flow (" c " , " s . cpp " , 2 ,   " c " , " s . cpp " , 5) .
     use (" x " , " s . cpp " , 5) .
     flow (" x " , " s . cpp " , 1 ,   " x " , " s . cpp " , 5) .
     flow ("1" , " s . cpp " , 0 ,     "1" , " s . cpp " , 5) .
     exit (6) ;
     use (" x " , " s . cpp " , 6) .
     flow (" x " , " s . cpp " , 1 ,   " x " , " s . cpp " , 6) .
     use ("1" , " s . cpp " , 6) .
     flow ("1" , " s . cpp " , 0 ,     "1" , " s . cpp " , 6) .
     use (" c " , " s . cpp " , 6) .
     flow (" c " , " s . cpp " , 2 ,   " c " , " s . cpp " , 6) .
     ```

     Example 3: Consider two code snippets as follows :
     ```
     Code1
     // s . cpp
     1. int x = 1;
     2. int y = x ;
     ```
     ```
     Code2
     // s . cpp
     1. int tx = 1;
     2. int y = tx ;
     ```

     The predicates corresponding to varMap ( all predicates are not shown here )
          would be :
     ```
     < Common Predicates >
     varMap (" x " , " s . cpp " , 1 , " Code1 " , " tx " , 1, " Code2 ") .
     </ Common Predicates >
     ```

     Example 4: Consider the code snippet as follows :
     ```
     // s . cpp
     1. int * x = malloc ( a ) ;
     2. int y = b + c ;
     3. int z = d + e ;
     4. int l = b * c ;
     ```

     The predicates corresponding to unaryFun and binaryFun ( all predicates are not
          shown here ) would be :
     ```
     unaryFun (" malloc " , " x " , " s . cpp " , 1 , " Code1 ") .
     binaryFun ("+" , " b " , " c " , " s . cpp " , 2 , " Code1 ") .
     binaryFun ("+" , " d " , " e " , " s . cpp " , 3 , " Code1 ") .
     binaryFun ("*" , " b " , " c " , " s . cpp " , 4 , " Code1 ") .
     ```

     Example 5: Consider two code snippets as follows :
42             Meghana Sistla, Gogul Balakrishnan, Pat Rondon, José Cambronero, Michele Tufano, and Satish Chandra


       ```
       Code1
       // s . cpp
       1. int a = x ;
       2. a = b ;
       3. return ;
       ```
       ```
       Code2
       // s . cpp
       1. int y = x ;
       2. int a = y ;
       3. a = b ;
       4. return ;
       ```

       The predicates corresponding to varMap ( all predicates are not shown here )
            would be :
       ```
       < Code1 Predicates >
       outputVar (" a " , " s . cpp " , 3 , " Code1 ") .
       </ Code1 Predicates >

       < Code2 Predicates >
       outputVar (" a " , " s . cpp " , 4 , " Code1 ") .
       </ Code2 Predicates >
       ```

*    You ** should ** only use the variable names in the provided code snippets .
*    Consider all constants are defined at the start of program at line : 0.
*    You ** must ** used the same file names for both code snippets .
*    You ** must ** end all the predicates with a full stop '. '.
*    If you do not know the file name , add " main . cpp " as the file name .
*    If a function call is a library function that is not relevant to the question ,
     use it as a blacbox and create a formal use - def predicates for the arguments
     of the function call or any global state changes due to the function call
     from the documentation for the function .
*    You must do deeper analysis for a function call irrespective of the varMap
       predicate .
*    Finally , you should explain and reason if the code snippets are equivalent or
       not .
*    Your explanation should solely be based on the predicates you generated .
*    You cannot use any other information beyond the generated predicates to explain
       your reasoning .
     You * must * refer to a predicate -- use / def / flow / controldep / exit for every
         statement made in your explanation .
*    If the code snippets are equivalent , your explanation ** must ** show this through
        a series of " flow " and " controldep " predicates .
     If they are not equivalent , your explanation ** must ** show this difference
         through a series of " flow " and " controldep " predicates .
     You can also use other predicates , particularly " defWithExpr " and " condWithExpr "
           as needed .
*    Give verbose explanations , reasoning about every statement in your explanation
       only in terms
     of the generated predicates . If you have to repeat yourself , you ** must **.

< Code1 Predicates >
Towards Verified Code Reasoning by LLMs                                                                 43


</ Code1 Predicates >

< Code2 Predicates >
</ Code2 Predicates >

< Common Predicates >
</ Common Predicates >

< Explanation >
</ Explanation >
                                                                                                            
Listing 2. System Instruction for Formalizer to generate the predicates for the given code snippets and an
explanation of equivalence using the generated predicates.

A.6   Explanation with Predicates Examples
We show an example of the explanation of equivalence (or not) using predicates generated by the
Formalizer. Figs. 32a and 32b shows two code snippets with differ only in two self-assignments.
The Formalizer generates the code predicates for the code snippets (not shown in this paper) such
as def(...), flow(...) and an explanation of program equivalence using the generated predicates as
shown in Fig. 32c.
44          Meghana Sistla, Gogul Balakrishnan, Pat Rondon, José Cambronero, Michele Tufano, and Satish Chandra

                                                                                                               
// main . cpp                                   // main . cpp
...                                             ...
189| void main () {                             189| void main () {
190| wrk - > y_accum += wrk - > y_add ;         190| wrk - > y_accum += wrk - > y_add ;
191| wrk - > dst += wrk - > dst_stride ;        191| wrk - > dst += wrk - > dst_stride ;
192| wrk - > dst_y += 1;                        192| wrk - > num_channels = wrk - > num_channels ;
193| return ;                                   193| wrk - > dst_width = wrk - > dst_width ;
194| }                                          194| wrk - > dst_y += 1;
...                                             195| return ;
                                              196| }
                                                ...
         (a) Sample code snippet 1                                                                               
                                                                  (b) Sample code snippet 2
                                                                                                         
     The two code snippets are semantically equivalent . The modifications in
         Code 2 are self - assignments which do not alter the programs state .

     In both code snippets , the program starts at line 189 , as indicated by `
         entry (" main " , 189 , " Code1 ") ` and ` entry (" main " , 189 , " Code2 ") `. The
         variables `wrk - > y_accum `, `wrk - > y_add `, `wrk - > dst `, `wrk - > dst_stride `,
           and `wrk - > dst_y ` are defined at the beginning of the execution for
         both snippets .
     ...
     For `wrk - > y_accum `:
     - In Code 1 , `def (" wrk - > y_accum " , " main " , 190 , " Code1 ") ` is a result of
         the expression `wrk - > y_accum += wrk - > y_add `. The final value of `wrk - >
         y_accum ` at ` exit (193 , " Code1 ") ` is given by ` flow (" wrk - > y_accum " , "
         main " , 190 , " wrk - > y_accum " , " main " , 193 , " Code1 ") `.
     - In Code 2 , `def (" wrk - > y_accum " , " main " , 190 , " Code2 ") ` is a result of
         the same expression . The final value of `wrk - > y_accum ` at ` exit (195 , "
         Code2 ") ` is given by ` flow (" wrk - > y_accum " , " main " , 190 , " wrk - > y_accum
         " , " main " , 195 , " Code2 ") `.

     For `wrk - > dst `:
     - In Code 1 , `def (" wrk - > dst " , " main " , 191 , " Code1 ") ` results from `wrk - >
         dst += wrk - > dst_stride `. The final value at ` exit (193 , " Code1 ") ` is
         given by ` flow (" wrk - > dst " , " main " , 191 , " wrk - > dst " , " main " , 193 , "
         Code1 ") `.
     - In Code 2 , `def (" wrk - > dst " , " main " , 191 , " Code2 ") ` results from the same
          expression . The final value at ` exit (195 , " Code2 ") ` is given by ` flow
         (" wrk - > dst " , " main " , 191 , " wrk - > dst " , " main " , 195 , " Code2 ") `.
     ...
     The additional lines in Code 2 , `wrk - > num_channels = wrk - > num_channels ;`
         and `wrk - > dst_width = wrk - > dst_width ;`, are self - assignments . This is
         shown by the predicates ` flow (" wrk - > num_channels " , " main " , 192 , " wrk - >
         num_channels " , " main " , 192 , " Code2 ") ` and ` flow (" wrk - > dst_width " , "
         main " , 193 , " wrk - > dst_width " , " main " , 193 , " Code2 ") `. These operations
          do not change the values of `wrk - > num_channels ` and `wrk - > dst_width `,
          and therefore have no impact on the final state of the program .

     Since the data flows for all watch variables are preserved and the
         additional statements are no - ops , the two code snippets are equivalent
         .
                                                                                                         
                                         (c) Sample code snippet 1

 Fig. 32. The explanation of equivalence generated by Formalizer using the provided predicate signatures.
