                                         The Impact of Large Language Models (LLMs) on Code
                                                            Review Process

                                          Antonio Collantea,∗, Samuel Abedua , SayedHassan Khatoonabadia , Ahmad
                                                          Abdellatifb , Ebube Alora , Emad Shihaba
                                                a Concordia University, 2155 Guy St, Montreal, H3H 2L9, Quebec, Canada
                                           b University of Calgary, 2500 University Dr NW, Calgary, T2N 1N4, Alberta, Canada
arXiv:2508.11034v2 [cs.SE] 13 Nov 2025




                                         Abstract
                                         Large language models (LLMs) have recently gained prominence in the field
                                         of software development, significantly boosting productivity and simplifying
                                         teamwork. Although prior studies have examined task-specific applications,
                                         the phase-specific effects of LLM assistance on the efficiency of code review pro-
                                         cesses remain underexplored. This research investigates the effect of GPT on
                                         GitHub pull request (PR) workflows, with a focus on reducing resolution time,
                                         optimizing phase-specific performance, and assisting developers. We curated a
                                         dataset of 25,473 PRs from 9,254 GitHub projects and identified GPT-assisted
                                         PRs using a semi-automated heuristic approach that combines keyword-based
                                         detection, regular expression filtering, and manual verification until achieving
                                         95% labeling accuracy. We then applied statistical modeling, including multi-
                                         ple linear regression and Mann–Whitney U test to evaluate differences between
                                         GPT-assisted and non-assisted PRs, both at the overall resolution level and
                                         across distinct review phases. Our research has revealed that early adoption of
                                         GPT as assistant can boost the effectiveness of the PR process, leading to con-
                                         siderable time savings at various stages. Our findings suggest that GPT-assisted
                                         PRs reduced median resolution time by more than 61%. We discovered that uti-
                                         lizing GPT can reduce the review time by 66.7%, and the waiting time before
                                         acceptance by 87.5%. Analyzing a sample of 300 GPT-assisted PRs, we dis-
                                         covered that developers predominantly use GPT for code optimization (60%),
                                         bug fixing (26%), and documentation updates (12%). Our findings highlight
                                         the potential of GPT to accelerate code reviews, improve code quality, and ad-
                                         dress persistent bottlenecks. This research sheds light on the impact of the
                                         GPT model on the code review process, offering actionable insights for software
                                         teams seeking to enhance workflows and promote seamless collaboration.

                                           ∗ Corresponding author

                                             Email addresses: antonio.collante@mail.concordia.ca (Antonio Collante),
                                         samuel.abedu@mail.concordia.ca (Samuel Abedu),
                                         sayedhassan.khatoonabadi@concordia.ca (SayedHassan Khatoonabadi),
                                         ahmad.abdellatif@ucalgary.ca (Ahmad Abdellatif), ebubechukwu.alor@mail.concordia.ca
                                         (Ebube Alor), emad.shihab@concordia.ca (Emad Shihab)
Keywords: LLMs, GPT, AI assistance, pull requests, pull request phases,
code review process, developer productivity.


1. Introduction

    Modern software development is heavily based on collaborative workflows,
with Pull Requests (PR) serving as a central mechanism to integrate code
changes [1, 2, 3]. A PR goes through multiple phases, including submission,
review, change, and merging, each requiring coordination between contributors
and reviewers [1]. Effective PR management is crucial to maintaining software
quality, but it remains a bottleneck in many projects due to long review times,
inconsistent feedback, and inefficient communication [4]. Developers often expe-
rience delays due to unclear review comments, excessive revisions, and prolonged
waiting times before changes are accepted [5].
    Inefficiencies in the software development cycle, such as long review times,
can lead to frustration among team members, decreased productivity, and even
project delays [6]. As codebases become increasingly intricate, there is a growing
need for sophisticated automation tools to facilitate the code review process and
improve collaboration and teamwork [7]. In parallel, LLMs, such as Generative
Pre-trained Transformers (GPTs) [8] have rapidly evolved, demonstrating strong
capabilities in code generation, bug detection, and documentation assistance
[9, 10]. These models are capable of suggesting enhancements to existing code,
resolving unclear logical structures, and automating repetitive tasks, thereby
becoming indispensable tools for software engineers.
    Despite the increasing adoption of LLM-powered tools in development work-
flows, a systematic investigation into their impact on PR processes is lacking.
Previous research on the use of LLM in the PR context [9, 11, 12, 13] has focused
mainly on task-specific applications, such as commit message generation [14] and
documentation support [15], while neglecting to explore their phase-specific im-
pact across the entire PR lifecycle. Furthermore, while LLM-generated sugges-
tions can be beneficial, it is necessary to quantify their effectiveness in improving
review speed and reducing PR merge time.
    This study aims to fill this knowledge gap by empirically evaluating the
impact of GPT on code review waiting times, with a particular focus on phase-
specific effects. It examines their influence on resolution time, their role in dif-
ferent PR phases, and the reasons why contributors and reviewers adopt GPT as
assistance. Given the proven effectiveness of GPT on a wide range of software
engineering tasks, including code generation, debugging, and documentation,
understanding how and to what extent GPT enhances the effectiveness of PRs
in each phase is crucial to assess their usefulness in real-world operations. These
insights can guide the design of more efficient GPT-supported code review work-
flows and inform best practices for integrating AI assistance into collaborative
software development.
    Toward this goal, we examine the PRs that software developers actively
engage with GPT in conversational exchanges to seek recommendations, clar-


                                         2
 ifications, or solutions related to code review tasks. We refer to these as
 GPT-assisted PRs throughout the paper. For example, in this GPT-assisted
 PR [16], approximately 99% of the code was generated by GPT-4, as the de-
 veloper requested ChatGPT to enhance a Ruby plugin that enables Jekyll to
 fetch posts from an external RSS feed when rss_url is specified. In contrast,
 GPT non-assisted PRs are those where developers either do not use GPT
 at all or use it strictly for implementation tasks (i.e., making an API call to
 a GPT model), without relying on it for code review insights or decision mak-
 ing. Our research investigates how GPT-assisted PRs influence the duration
 and quality of the code review process. For this purpose, we start by curating
 a dataset of 25,473 PRs from 9,254 projects on GitHub. Next, we extract six
 features (project_age, no_commits, files_added, files_deleted, files_changed,
 time_to_merge) to characterize projects, PRs, and code reviews. We then ana-
 lyze how these factors influence the review and resolution times [17]. Finally, we
 also investigate which development tasks involve the use of GPT-assisted PRs
 throughout the PR phases, aiming to identify where such assistance is most
 effectively integrated. In summary, our aim is to answer the following three
 research questions:

RQ1: Does GPT-assistance during the PR process reduce the resolu-
     tion time? We aim to understand the potential of LLMs to expedite
     the resolution of PRs in the code review process. Specifically, we analyze
     their impact on the total time required to resolve a PR, from its submis-
     sion to completion. Our results suggest a correlation between the use of
     GPT-assisted PRs and a decrease in merge time approximately from 23 to
     9 hours.
RQ2: How does GPT assistance impact various phases of the PR pro-
     cess? We aim to further explore the effect of GPT in various phases of
     the PR process, such as submission, evaluation, modification, and waiting
     time, to determine where its support is most advantageous. Our analysis
     shows that GPT-assisted PRs complete faster across key phases of the re-
     view process. Specifically, they take 1 hour at the Review phase, 3 hours
     at Waiting for Changes, and 1 hour at Change, compared to 3 hours, 24
     hours, and 1 hour, respectively, for non-assisted PRs. These results high-
     light the potential of GPT to streamline the PR workflow, especially by
     reducing waiting times.
RQ3: Why do contributors and reviewers use GPT during the PR
     process? We aim to better understand how programmers use GPT to
     enhance code quality, fix errors, and improve documentation. By analyz-
     ing these application patterns, we uncover how developers integrate this
     technology into their daily workflows, highlighting its most potential ben-
     efits. Our findings show that developers devote a significant part of their
     review time to refining and correcting the source code. Specifically, 60.26%
     of enhancement tasks occur during the Review phase, 42.31% during Wait-
     ing for Changes, and 35.90% during the Change phase. This explains the


                                         3
     role of GPT as assistance in enhancing efficiency for those time-consuming
     activities.

    Finally, our research provides recommendations for software developers, both
maintainers and contributors, as well as researchers, aimed at optimizing and ac-
celerating the PR review process. We argue that applying the GPT recommen-
dations as a support tool can strengthen collaboration by allowing participants
to better anticipate and resolve potential issues.
Our Contributions. In summary, we make the following contributions in this
paper:

   • To the best of our knowledge, this is the first comprehensive analysis that
     examines the effectiveness of GPT during the PR review phases.
   • We present empirical evidence on the impact of GPT on PR-based devel-
     opment phases and identify the types of software development activities
     where it is used the most frequently.

   • To promote the reproducibility of our study and facilitate future research
     on this topic, we publicly share our scripts and dataset online at https:
     //github.com/acollant/GPT-Assistance-PR.

Paper Organization. The remainder of the paper is organized as follows. We
review related work in Section 2 and describe our study setup and dataset in
Section 3. We report our approach and findings for each research question in
Section 4 and discuss the implications of our findings in Section 5. Finally, we
describe the limitations of our study in Section 6 and conclude the paper in
Section 7.


2. Related Work

   In the following, we first review research on the challenges in code reviews
and collaboration before moving on to an overview of factors affecting PR life-
time and latency. Finally, we review studies on the application of LLMs in code
reviews.
Challenges in Modern Code Reviews (MCR) and Collaboration. Code
reviews are a critical aspect of modern software development, ensuring code
quality, maintainability, and adherence to best practices. However, the process
comes with several challenges that can affect efficiency, collaboration, and over-
all development workflow. For example, long waiting times where PRs often
remain unreviewed for extended periods, slowing down development. Kudr-
javets et al. [5] reported that between 29% and 63% of the overall code review
lifetime is spent waiting for the accepted changes to merge. Bacchelli and Bird
[3] reveal that scheduling and time issues also appeared challenging; yet, under-
standing the code and comments takes most of the review time. According to


                                        4
these authors, code reviews tend to be less focused on detecting defects than ex-
pected and, instead, provide additional advantages, such as knowledge transfer,
increased team awareness, and the creation of alternative solutions to problems.
Davila and Nunes [18] also reported that reviewers have found it difficult to
understand the code, which prompts the need for enhancements to visualize
code changes to facilitate understanding. However, a recent study has shown
that ChatGPT is an alternative to generate some kind of explanations during
MCR [19]. Davila et al. [15] identified five challenges to adopting generative AI
in MCR: trustworthiness, lack of context, misleading review comments, security
and privacy, and token limits. Although prior studies have explored aspects of the
use of GPT in software development, they do not provide a systematic analysis
of its impact on waiting times and efficiency in all phases of the PR workflow.
Our study addresses this gap by focusing on its influence during specific code
review phases.
Factors Affecting PR Lifetime and Latency. Studying the factors that
influence PR latency is crucial for improving software development efficiency,
collaboration, and overall code quality. Understanding what causes delays in
PR review and merging can lead to optimizations that benefit both developers
and organizations [4], [20], [17], [21], and [22]. Zhang et al. [4] identified that the
number of commits at open time is negatively correlated with PR merging but
shifts to a positive correlation at close time. Rose [20] built a Multiple Linear
Regression Model (MLR) that indicates that the PR size has a statistically
significant effect on the review time, as the positive value of the regression
coefficient implies that as the PR size increases, the review time for PRs also
increases. Moreira Soares et al. [17] further emphasized that PRs possess some
structural characteristics, such as the number of modified files, the number of
commits, and the number of changed lines of code. Moreira Soares et al. [17]
concluded that the combination of structural characteristics may increase the
chances of PRs having a very short and long lifetime.
    Although prior research explores factors affecting PR latency (e.g., size, num-
ber of commits), there is limited research into how GPT can have an effect on
PR resolution time. Khatoonabadi et al. [21] developed a machine learning
model to predict the latency of the initial responses of the maintainers and con-
tributors after receiving the first feedback from the maintainer. These authors
highlighted that the timing of submissions and feedback are factors that have a
significant influence on response waiting times. Their approach, which provides
estimated waiting times, helps open-source projects collaborate better by allow-
ing maintainers and contributors to anticipate and address potential delays in
PR reviews. This study complements the aforementioned work by offering em-
pirical insights into GPT usage beyond commit messages, specifically examining
detailed time reductions in key phases such as review and change.
The Application of LLMs in Code Reviews. LLM-powered tools can offer
services designed to streamline various code review-related development tasks.
Research has been conducted on the impact of AI-driven generative tools in this
context [9], [14], [15], [13], [23], [24], [25], [26]. For instance, Davila et al. [15]


                                          5
conducted a literature review on the application of AI-based generative tools
in a code review context and highlighted that AI-based tools can positively
impact code review efficiency by reducing reviewer workload and review duration
and increasing the likelihood of acceptance in GitHub projects. Xiao et al.
[14] observed that PRs assisted by Copilot have a 1.57 times higher likelihood
of being merged compared to those not assisted by Copilot for PR. Tufano
et al. [9] reported how developers use ChatGPT to automatically generate a
commit message and a PR/issue description. Rasheed et al. [13] highlighted the
potential of LLM-powered AI agents to considerably improve conventional code
review procedures. These agents provide a twofold advantage: they enhance
code quality and improve developer learning.
    Vijayvergiya et al. [23] shared the experience in developing, implementing,
and evaluating AutoCommenter, a LLM-powered code review tool that enforces
coding best practices and has a positive impact on the developer’s workflow. Yu
et al. [24] proposed Carllm (Comprehensibility of Automated Code Review us-
ing LLMs) that improves the comprehensibility of automated code review. Hao
et al. [25] studied the role of ChatGPT in collaborative coding by analyzing
the shared conversation between developers and ChatGPT in GitHub PRs and
issues, finding that the most frequent requests involve code generation, concep-
tual understanding, how-to guidance, issue resolution, and code review. Studies
on GPT have examined particular tasks (e.g., code generation, commit message
generation, or bug fixing), but lack a holistic view of its phase-specific impacts
during the PR life cycle.
    Cihan et al. [27] conduct an empirical study on the use of LLM-based au-
tomated code review in the industry. They analyze 4,335 PRs across three
projects. Although approximately 74% of automated comments were applied,
the tool slightly improved code quality, increased bug detection, and promoted
best practices, but also led to longer PR closure times and occasional irrelevant
suggestions. The study shows that automated reviews can help developers, but
they do not replace human judgment. Effectiveness depends on the context
of the project and current workflows. Ramesh et al. [28] present a case study
on an LLM-augmented code review tool used by Ericsson. The tool combines
static program analysis with prompt engineering to deliver context-aware re-
views in a live workflow. Their evaluation suggests that integrated LLM-based
reviews can reduce manual effort and support developer workflows. However,
effective prompting, tool integration, and risk mitigation remain key challenges.
Previous research has explored the use of large language models for automated
code review in software development, but human involvement is still essential to
ensure contextual understanding. This study aims to address this limitation by
investigating the impact of GPT on specific phases of the PR workflow, specif-
ically the review and the waiting phase. It is important to note that this study
does not propose a new approach for automatically generating code reviews using
LLMs.




                                        6
                               Searching Potential GPT-Assisted PRs


         Search for GPT                Filter out                   Collect
       keyword on GitHub           Projects and PRs                  PRs                   25,473 PRs using
                                                                                                 GPT

    - Applied on May 9, 2024     Projects                     - Using GitHub API
    - Using GitHub API           - Having stars >= 2 and
    - Total of 81 234 PRs        - Number of participants >= 2
                                 PRs
                                 - Having number of events >= 1



                                  Identifying GPT-assisted PRs

                                           Label PRs
                                                                               Apply
       Defining Heuristics                  using the
                                                                              Heuristics
                                           Heuristics

                                    - On the 450 PRs                - On the 25,473 PRs
    - Sample of 450 PRs             - Until accuracy >= 95%         - Label automatically as
    - Creation of 4 Heuristics
                                                                       GPT-assisted or
    - Analysed by 3 annotators
                                                                       GPT-non-assisted
                                             Iterative task         - Discard false positive




                               Mapping GPT-Assisted to PR Phases


                                                               Map Events as
        1600 GPT-Assisted                                        Phases
              PRs

                                                                                               PR Phases


         23 873 GPT-Non-             Find Similarity           1600 GPT-Non-               - The dataset includes
           Assisted PRs                                         Assisted PRs               the phases both for the
                                                                                           GPT-assisted and non-
                                                                                           assisted PRs
                    - Applying Manhattan distance to identify the most
                    similar GPT-non-assisted PRs with GPT-Assisted PRs




              Investigating the Implication of
              GPT-Assisted within PR Phases

              RQ1. Impact the GPT as assistance on PR
              Resolution Phase

              RQ2. Impact the GPT as assistance on each PR
              Phase


              RQ3. How GPT is used at each PR Phase




Figure 1: An overview of our study setup that describes a semi-automated approach for
                                            7 PRs to the phases in which GPT is used.
identifying, detecting, and mapping GPT-assisted
3. Study Setup

    In this paper, we investigate how incorporating GPT as an assistance tool
influences the code review process. In particular, it focuses on scenarios where
developers interact with GPT to obtain feedback or suggestions during PR re-
views, while excluding PRs generated automatically by GPT. Specifically, we
examine how GPT influences the overall PR resolution time and how its effects
vary between different phases of the review workflow. We also aim to identify the
types of review tasks for which developers actively seek GPT support. Figure 1
presents an overview of our study design. We begin with an automated pro-
cedure to identify potential GPT-assisted PRs, followed by a semi-automated
verification step to confirm the actual use of GPT during the review. Finally,
we map the verified GPT-assisted PRs to their corresponding review phases.
The remainder of this section provides a detailed explanation of each step in
our methodology.

3.1. Searching Potential GPT-assisted PRs
   To identify relevant PRs for our analysis, we rely on GitHub, which adopts
a PR-based approach to submit, review, and merge code contributions [18]. We
use the GitHub REST API [29] to retrieve a broad set of candidate PRs in
which the assistant of a GPT model could have been used during the review
process.

3.1.1. Searching
    Following a similar strategy to that of Tufano et al. [9], we conduct keyword-
based searches for mentions of "GPT" in four main PR fields, obtaining a total
of 81,234 PRs.

  ■ Project Name: Although some GPT-focused projects may not actually
    use GPT for PR reviews, we still record these mentions before filtering
    out irrelevant cases [30].
  ■ PR Title: The use of GPT may be evident in the PR title (e.g., refactored
    using GPT suggestions [31]).
  ■ Body+Comments: A PR description and/or comments can refer to
    GPT explicitly (e.g., code generated by GPT [32]).

  ■ File(s) Name: References in filenames (e.g., chatgpt_review.md [33])
    can indicate GPT-generated artifacts.

3.1.2. Filtering
    To avoid projects with minimal activity or that lack meaningful collabora-
tion, we keep only projects that meet the following criteria: (1) repositories
that have at least 10 stars [34], to remove toys or trivial projects. (2) at least
two contributors are involved in the review process, to exclude self-reviewed
PRs. (3) PRs that contain more than one event in the lifetime.


                                        8
    Based on the aforementioned criteria, a total of 25,473 pull requests were
collected from 9,254 repositories on May 9, 2024. For each PR, we extracted
detailed metadata, including the associated project name, URL, PR number
and title, event history, contributor information, creation date, comments, and
the set of modified files.

3.2. Identifying GPT-assisted PRs
    In this semi-automated step, our goal is to define the heuristics that indicate
the use of GPT to classify PRs as GPT-assisted or GPT-non-assisted. By doing
this, we exclude false positives (i.e., PRs that mentioned GPT as discussed in
Section 3.1 but did not use GPT to assist in the code review process). This step
ensures that the PRs used for our analysis are PRs where GPT models are used
in the code review process, rather than just being part of the project code.

3.2.1. Defining Heuristics
    To enable the identification of patterns related to GPT usage in code review
processes, we randomly selected 450 GitHub PRs from the initial dataset with a
confidence level of 95% and a margin error of 5%. We ensure an even distribution
among the three contributing authors to examine indicators of GPT assistance
during review activities.
    Three authors independently inspected 150 unique PRs in three separate
rounds, analyzing project names, PR titles, modified files, and PR bodies. In
Round 1, each annotator reviewed the first set of 150 PRs and cross-validated
our observations to ensure that the identified patterns consistently reflected
GPT-assisted contributions. In particular, most PRs were ultimately classi-
fied as GPT-non-assisted, as GPT was often integrated into the software (e.g.,
through GPT APIs) but not explicitly used to support the code review itself.
Table A.5 in the appendix presents the findings of Round 1.
    In Rounds 2 and 3, the annotators applied the same procedure to two addi-
tional sets of 150 PRs each. After each round, the reviewers met to consolidate
recurring patterns, clarify ambiguous cases, and resolve classification disagree-
ments through discussion until consensus was reached. For relevance labeling,
disagreements occurred in 4% of the cases. Krippendorff’s α = 0.77 [35] indi-
cates substantial inter-annotator reliability. This suggests that the evaluators
were largely consistent in their judgments, providing confidence in the quality
of the relevance annotations.
    We defined four heuristics, as outlined in Table 1, to analyze and label
the presence of GPT-assisted PRs. These heuristics are reinforced by a regu-
lar expression-based technique which automatically classifies the collected PR
instances as either GPT-assisted or GPT-non-assisted based on the identified
patterns: H1: Project name, H2: PR title, H3: Modified files, H4: PR
body+comments.

3.2.2. Label PRs using Heuristics
    Initially, we experimented with various sizes of n-gram to determine which
configurations offered the most valuable insights for detecting recurring patterns.


                                        9
Table 1: Definition of the Heuristics Applied to the Project Name, PR Title, PR Body, and
Modified File to Identify PRs using GPT as Assistance
 Heuristic Description
 H1        Aims to find and filter any GPT-related keywords within the
           project name (e.g., EleutherAI/gpt-neo)
 H2        Matches and filters any pattern that implies the use of GPT
           as non-assistance in the PR title (e.g., use of chatgpt-retrieval-
           plugin)
 H3        Finds and filters any file name pattern, directory, URL, and file
           version that indicates the use of GPT for implementation (e.g.,
           Add ChatGPT Image Unlocker V2, from 3.1.0 to 3.3.0) with
           the modified file names.
 H4        Extracts and filters the patterns in H1, H2, H3 in the PR body,
           but including action verbs such as add, refactor, implement,
           and rename (e.g., Added some simple error handling around
           the OpenAI ChatGPT logic to capture rate limit errors and
           bad gateways).


In contrast to the methodology employed by Tufano et al. [9], which used
2- or 3-grams, we found that a maximum size of 5-n-gram provided sufficient
context or relevant information to accurately capture the role of GPT in GPT-
assisted pull requests. We then proceeded to automatically extract both forward
and backward n-grams, up to a maximum of 5-grams [36], containing the term
GPT, while simultaneously applying a set of heuristics designed to reduce the
occurrence of false positives. For instance, when analyzing the PR body, we
encountered the sentence: "Instead of incorporating muP into GPT-NeoX we
are going to move these changes to [our fork of their repo]" 1 . From this, we
extracted the backward n-gram "of incorporating muP into GPT-NeoX" and
the forward n-gram "GPT-NeoX we are going to"; the application of heuristic
H4 identified GPT-NeoX as a reference to the PR name, thereby classifying
this PR as GPT non-assisted. Additionally, we applied heuristics on the sample
of 450 PRs (defined in section 3.2.1) to filter and automatically eliminate false
positives, including cases where GPT is mentioned in a PR but not used for
assistance, as well as instances where a PR may appear GPT-assisted but is
actually unrelated (e.g., mentions of GPT in the context of non-code-related
discussions, such as research or tool integration). These measures ensured that
only relevant PRs, where GPT is actively used for code review assistance, were
included in the analysis.
    To ensure the reliability of our heuristics, two authors independently exam-
ined the labeling on the 450 PRs by carefully reviewing the labels generated
during the execution of the heuristics. In the final step, the heuristics were

  1 https://github.com/EleutherAI/gpt-neox/pull/1061#issuecomment-1771635901




                                           10
adjusted and reapplied to improve accuracy and consistency. We performed
three rounds of refinement/reapply until we obtained an accuracy of 95% as an
acceptable agreement score in the labeling of PRs. Table A.6 in the appendix
presents the increase in accuracy as more heuristics were refined.

3.2.3. Applying the Heuristics
    We applied the heuristics to the entire dataset of 25,473 PRs to label them as
either GPT-assisted or non-assisted. Subsequently, one of the authors examined
the dataset for true positive cases by manually reviewing the final labels. Ulti-
mately, we split the dataset into two separate groups: GPT-assisted and GPT-
non-assistance PRs. Of the 1,600 GPT-assisted PRs, 54 remain open, 179 have
been closed without merging, and 1,367 have been successfully merged. This
distribution highlights that the majority of GPT-assisted PRs are ultimately
integrated into the codebase, reflecting the potential influence of GPT on the
completion and acceptance of code contributions. The table A.7 displays the
distribution of GPT-assisted PRs in the dataset.

3.3. Mapping Events to PR Phases
    In this automatic step, our goal is to define the different phases of the code
review process as previously performed by Kudrjavets et al. [5]. We report de-
scriptive statistics to quantify the extent of GPT usage in each phase, depending
on whether non-productive phases are present in the review workflow.

3.3.1. Finding Similarity GPT-non-assisted PRs with GPT-Assisted PRs
    To have a fair comparison between the GPT-assisted and GPT-non-assisted
PRs, we quantify the similarity between them applying the Manhattan dis-
tance [37, 38] on the same factors as applied in RQ1 4.1. To mitigate the
presence of outliers or bias in the factor, we rescale no_commits, PR_size,
no_changed_files, project_age to a range within [0, 1], applying the max-min
method [38]. The two well-known metrics (the Manhattan and Euclidean dis-
tance produce very similar results (Spearman correlation ρ = 0.98 [39] when
computing the distances between factors), we finally test the differences be-
tween the PRs supported by or without GPT by getting the minimum distance
value from the Manhattan distance.

3.3.2. Identifying PR Events using GPT
    For each PR previously labeled as GPT-assisted, we applied the heuristic
H4 (explained in Table 1) to timeline events [40] to label the events that the
contributor and reviewers shared as GPT-assisted or GPT-non-assisted events.
This specifies when and in what capacity GPT helps with PR discussions. Figure
2 is a visual representation of our definition of the PR phases:

  ■ at_submission: the time in hours from the first commit (committed
    state) to when the author submits the code change (pulled state). Accord-
    ing to Figure 2, this phase corresponds to the time taken from at_commitevent=0
    to at_bef ore_pull.


                                       11
                           Figure 2: Pull Request Phases


  ■ at_review: is the amount of time, expressed in hours, that occurs be-
    tween the submission of a code review (pulled state) and the first re-
    view, comment, inline comment (comment on specific code fragments),
    commit-commented, review-commented, provided by a person who is not
    the code’s author. The review phase is comparable to the time-to-first-
    response, which is a proportion of the time needed to accomplish the first
    iteration of the code review. According to Figure 2, this phase comprises
    the period between from at_pullevent!=0 to at_reviewn=1 .
  ■ at_change: refers to the time in hour from the last review, comment, in-
    line comment (comment on specific code fragments), commit-commented,
    review-commented until the acceptance of the code review by someone
    other than the author of the code. According to Figure 2, this phase
    covers the time between at_reviewn and at_accepted.
  ■ at_waiting_time: refers to the duration, in hours, spent in iterative
    exchanges and feedback between reviewers and the contributor. The first
    interval (waiting before change) captures the time between at_review2
    and at_reviewn−1 , while the second (waiting after acceptance) represents
    the period from acceptance to merge. During the waiting phases, several
    iterative exchanges occur between the contributor and the reviewer.

    It is important to note that when a second review (event = reviewed) is
absent in the PR timeline, the PR transitions directly to the At Change phase,
indicating that no multiple back-and-forth interactions occurred between the
contributor and the reviewers. Furthermore, We did not identify any events
that indicate any GPT-assisted activity during the Submission and Waiting
after Acceptance phases; therefore, these phases were excluded from further
analysis in our study.
    To analyze the impact of LLMs on each PR phase, we mapped a chronological
sequence of events (including pulling, examining, integrating, forcing the head
reference, commenting on reviews, comments in lines, commit messages, and
merging) to the phases. To maintain the validity of our results, only pull requests
with sequential timestamps were included in the analysis. In these cases, the
review phase follows the submission phase, the approval step follows the review,


                                        12
and the merging occurs after acceptance. Finally, to ensure human participation
in the review process, we excluded PRs in which the only participants, either
as contributors or reviewers, were the original author and automated bots.


4. Results

4.1. Does GPT-assistance during the PR process reduce the resolution
     time?

Motivation: Recent studies have investigated the influence and popularity of
ChatGPT on code review [41], [11], [25], [42]. The potential impact of using
GPT models as assistants throughout the entire PR lifecycle remains largely un-
explored. This research question investigates whether relying on GPT-assisted
PRs affects code review resolution time in GitHub projects by analyzing the
impact of GPT models on the overall merge time of PRs.
Approach: To answer this research question, we build a Multiple Linear Re-
gression Model (MLRM) [43] to empirically explain PR lifetime. For this pur-
pose, we examine previous studies to identify a list of known factors that sig-
nificantly influence PR resolution time [4], [17], [20], [44]. Bernardo et al. [45]
defines resolution time as the time it takes for a code change to be merged into
the development branch after review. This implies that the change is not fully
implemented until it can be built, tested, and deployed. This is possible only
after merging into the main branch. We will use the time it takes for code mod-
ifications to be merged as a metric, selecting only PRs that have been merged,
considering the identified factors that affect this time [44]. After this step,
our dataset includes only the merged PRs with a total of 1,367 PRs (85.43%
of the total GPT-assisted PR population as shown in Table A.7) using GPT-
assisted. To compare the resolution time between the GPT-assisted PRs and
GPT-non-assisted PRs, we used the GPT-non-assisted PRs dataset explained
in section 3.3.1 (Finding Similarity GPT-non-assisted PRs with GPT-Assisted
PRs). Furthermore, we added a two-state indicator to the dataset, with 1
representing PR that use GPT-assisted and 0 representing PR that use GPT
non-assisted. This indicator is used to better understand the impact of the GPT
as a factor on PR latency.
    To compare the statistical difference between PRs using GPT-assisted or
GPT-non-assisted, as an influencing factor, we use the Mann-Whitney U test, a
non-parametric test that compares two independent groups that do not require
normally distributed samples[46]. To carry out this statistical test, we utilize the
stats package2 considering a confidence level of 95% (α = 0.05). The following
formula and list of factors characterize the Linear Model (LM) performed in our
study:

   2 R Core Team.   2023.   R: a language and environment for statistical computing.
https://www.R-project.org




                                        13
                     time_to_merge = is_gpt_assisted
                                        + no_commits
                                        + P R_size                              (1)
                                        + no_changed_f iles
                                        + project_age

  ■ time_to_merge (dependent variable) is a numeric value that indicates the
    latency of PR in hours.
  ■ is_gpt_assisted (Treatment) is a binary value ([0,1]) that translates whether
    a PR is a GPT-assisted PR.
  ■ Common factors that influence the PR latency [4, 20, 17].
        □ no_commits (control variable) represents the number of changes
          pushed to a repository over time.
        □ PR_size (control variable) is the amount of change in the PR (added
          + deleted lines of code).
        □ no_changed_files (control variable) is the number of files that have
          changed during the review process.
  ■ The project_age in months (control variable) variable, which represents
    the maturity level of the projects.

    To mitigate the influence of skewness and enhance the clarity of our statis-
tical examination, we implemented a logarithmic transformation on variables
that exhibit a skewed distribution [47]. To implement our linear model shown
in Equation 1, we follow the approach proposed by James et al. [43]. First, we
build our model using the lm function that comes standard with the distribu-
tion3 . Then we evaluate the degree of confidence of our model by obtaining the
marginal and conditional coefficients of determination (R2 ) [48]. To determine
whether the adoption of GPT-assisted has a potential impact on PR latency,
we check the statistical significance and the total variance of is_gpt-assisted in
the model. To identify the level of significance of the variables, we rely on the
traditional confidence level of α = 0.05 [49].
    Following the methodology of Cole and Altman [50], we quantified the
percentage reduction between GPT-assisted and non-assisted PRs over the entire
PR lifecycle (i.e., resolution or merge time), expressing the difference relative to
the median merge time of non-assisted PRs:
                    Median GPT-assisted PRs merge time
            (1 −                                          ) × 100               (2)
                   Median GPT-non-assisted PRs merge time

  3 https://www.rdocumentation.org/packages/stats/versions/3.6.2/topics/lm




                                          14
              Table 2: Linear Model Coefficients for log1p(time_to_merge_h)
 Predictor                       Estimate Std.Err t value               Pr(> | t |)   Signif.
 (Intercept)                         0.5186       0.1248        4.154     3.37e-05    ***
 is_gpt-assisted                    -0.4921       0.0745       -6.601     4.88e-11    ***
 log1p(no_commits)                   0.8052       0.0715       11.267      < 2e-16    ***
 log1p(PR_size)                      0.1576       0.0322        4.899     1.02e-06    ***
 log1p(no_changed_files)             0.0064       0.0702        0.091        0.927
 log1p(project_age_month)            0.3371       0.0275       12.252      < 2e-16    ***
 Signif. codes: 0 ‘***’ 0.001 ‘**’ 0.01 ‘*’ 0.05 ‘.’ 0.1 ‘ ’ 1


Findings: As shown in Table 2, the multiple linear regression model suggests
that GPT assistance has a statistically significant effect on pull request (PR)
latency. Specifically, the variable is_gpt-assisted yields a p-value of 4.88e−11 ,
well below the standard significance threshold of α = 0.05, indicating strong
evidence against the null hypothesis. The corresponding negative coefficient
suggests that GPT assistance is associated with a reduction in the time re-
quired to merge a PR. The standard error for this estimate is 0.0745, indicating
a high degree of precision, and the large associated t-value reinforces the ro-
bustness of the finding. Together, these results demonstrate that GPT-assisted
PRs tend to be merged more quickly than their non-assisted counterparts. This
quantitative result is consistent with the descriptive statistics presented in Fig-
ure 3, where GPT-assisted PRs have a median merge time of approximately 9
hours, compared to 23 hours for non-assisted PRs.

   Answer to RQ1. The results highlight the potential of GPT assis-
   tance to significantly accelerate the pull request review process, with
   percentage of reduction of the merge times by 61%. Integrating GPT
   as an assistance in the development workflows can help streamline code
   review, improve team efficiency, and facilitate faster software delivery.


4.2. How does GPT assistance impact various phases of the PR pro-
     cess?

Motivation: Previous studies have shown that factors such as technology,
collaboration dynamics, and project context influence the effectiveness of code
reviews [4, 5, 6, 45]. More recently, AI-driven tools, particularly LLMs, have
been explored for their potential to assist with PR-related development tasks
and improve review efficiency [15, 14, 9]. Despite growing interest, little is known
about how developers actually use GPT during the code review process or how
its usage varies across different phases of a PR lifecycle. This gap motivates our
investigation of the impact of GPT as assistance on review and resolution time.
By identifying the specific phases in which GPT is applied and understanding
its role as an assistive (rather than an automated) tool, we aim to assess where
it offers the greatest benefit in the review workflow.



                                              15
                                Time to Merge by GPT Assistance
                        35
                        30
Time to Merge (hours)

                        25




                                                                  22.7
                        20
                        15




                                 8.9
                        10
                        5




                             GPT−assisted                   GPT−non−assisted

                                            Pull Request Type




Figure 3: The distribution of merge times reveals that GPT-assisted PRs have a median merge
time of approximately 9 hours, compared to 23 hours for non-assisted PRs.


Approach: To investigate the impact of using GPT as assistance throughout
the PR phases, we first define the distinct phases of the PR workflow, starting
from the submission of a change to merge into the project branch including the
presence of the waiting time, as described in detail in the section 3.3 (Map-
ping Events to PR Phases). To assess whether the use of GPT-assisted leads
to statistically significant differences in PR phases, the Mann-Whitney U test
was applied [51]. This non-parametric test is well-suited for comparing two in-
dependent samples, particularly when the assumption of normality cannot be
guaranteed. In this study, the GPT-assisted and GPT-non-assisted datasets are
treated as independent groups, as each PR belongs to only one condition (each
PR is placed into only one of these two groups), with no overlapping or paired
observations. Using the Mann-Whitney U test aims to determine whether the
distributions of phases differ significantly between the two groups, thus provid-
ing evidence on the potential impact of GPT-assisted. We computed percentage
reductions in PR phases between GPT-assisted and GPT non-assisted cases,
following the definition of Cole and Altman [50] as defined in Formula 2. To
account for the asymmetry of the raw percentage measures, we also calculated
percentage of reduction in logarithmic transformation, confirming a substantial
time benefit associated with GPT assistance: −109.9% and −208.7% reductions
for the At Review and At Waiting for Change phases, respectively.


                                                16
Table 3: Median time (in hours) spent across three key PR phases for GPT-assisted and
non-assisted pull requests
    GPT             At Review         At Waiting for Change              At Change
   Assisted             1                       3                            1
 Non-Assisted           3                      24                            1
Note: There is no evidence of GPT assistance being used during the submission or waiting
after acceptance phases of the PR workflow. Consequently, these phases are excluded from
the table.



Findings: The results presented in Table 3 highlight significant differences in
the duration of review between GPT-assisted and non-assisted PRs, with partic-
ularly notable reductions observed during the At Review and At Waiting Before
Change phases. In the At Review phase, the median time for GPT-assisted PRs
was approximately 1 hour, compared to 3 hours for GPT-non-assisted PRs —
reflecting a 66.7% reduction in the review time. The most significant difference
was found in the At Waiting Before Change phase, where GPT-assisted PRs
had a median waiting time of approximately 3 hours, while their non-assisted
counterparts experienced a median of 24 hours. This corresponds to an 87.5%
reduction in waiting time. The results of the Mann–Whitney U test confirmed
that the reductions in these two phases were statistically significant, with p-
values well below the conventional significance threshold (α = 0.05). These low
p-values provide strong evidence against the null hypothesis, suggesting that
the differences are unlikely to be due to random variation. Interestingly, no
significant differences were observed in Phase 1 (At Submission) and Phase 5
(At Waiting after Acceptance), where there was no clear indication of GPT
as assistance was used during these stages, suggesting that the use of GPT is
concentrated in the core iterative phases of the review process.

    Answer to RQ2. Our analysis reveals that GPT-assisted PRs are asso-
    ciated with significantly shorter durations in specific phases. The review
    phase is 66.7% faster, and the revision before acceptance is reduced by
    87.5% compared to GPT-non-assisted PRs. However, no significant dif-
    ferences are observed in the change phase.


4.3. Why do contributors and reviewers use GPT during the PR pro-
     cess?

Motivation: Our prior analysis revealed that the use of GPT was associated
with notable variations in the duration of individual PR phases, suggesting
that its influence extends beyond the overall resolution time to phase-specific
developer activities. While earlier studies have examined how developers use
GPT for specific code review tasks [9, 12], recent work has raised concerns about
its influence on review discussions and developer responses [25, 42]. Although


                                           17
GPT tools show promise across various software engineering activities, little is
known about their role across different phases of the PR workflow. This suggests
an underexplored but potentially broad impact of GPT-based tools on the code
review process. To fill the gap, we analyze the purposes for which developers
use GPT within GitHub PR phases.
Approach: To examine the purposes for which developers use GPT as assis-
tance, we analyzed a statistical sample of 310 randomly selected PRs with a
confidence level of 95% and a margin error of 5%, drawn from the dataset of
1,600 GPT-assisted PRs as described in Section 3.2.3. The labeling followed
the taxonomy proposed by Tufano et al. [9] and was conducted in two rounds of
155 PRs each. Two authors independently assigned labels (enhancement, im-
plementation, bug fix, testing, documentation, other ) to the instances, then met
after each round to refine definitions. The authors resolved any discrepancies
or disagreements in the labeling through discussion and consensus, rather than
the formal calculation of inter-rater reliability metrics This approach allowed
the authors to assign labels consistently and accurately even in nuanced cases.
The annotators agreed that in some cases, multiple labels should be applied to
one task, even if it is considered "atomic". The analysis specifically targeted
events in which developers explicitly recorded their requests to GPT and the
corresponding suggestions generated by the model. This classification enabled a
structured understanding of the functional contexts in which GPT-assisted PRs
are integrated into the PR workflow.
Findings: Table 4 presents the most common tasks for which developers seek
the assistance of GPT during each phase of the PR process, along with details
on their frequency and significance, highlighting its focused role in supporting
diverse development tasks. In the following, we provide a detailed description
of these tasks and their distribution across the different PR phases, highlighting
the overall use of GPT on the code review lifecycle.

  ■ Enhancement: As shown in Table 4, this is the most common activ-
    ity during the stages (60.26% At Review, 42.31% Waiting before Change
    and 35.90% At Change), when developers offer current code as a base-
    line for adaptation. Most of the suggestions made by GPT are about
    refactoring the code, missing error handling, and making changes to ex-
    isting code for performance reasons. We can see that the rewriting of
    the code was for minor modifications; for example, the most common
    modification was renaming a variable, function or class name, changing a
    flag variable, declaring a variable, adding/removing a conditional or re-
    organization a function. In contrast, we see more occasions when GPT
    proposes adding an error-handling instruction (try..catch). An example
    of a case of enhancement can be found in the PR [16], where the devel-
    oper asked ChatGPT to change a Ruby plugin: updates external-posts.rb
    plugin, allowing the user to specify an explicit lists of urls in config.yml
    that are then displayed in the blog feed as external posts. 99% of the code
    in this change is written by gpt-4: https://chat.openai.com/share/


                                       18
  24432d24-36a7-4d6f-a5c0-d7e5142f68cd
■ Implementation: Contrary to our expectations, in our sample we ob-
  serve that the Implementation in which the developers ask GPT to gener-
  ate a piece of code (from scratch) has a low frequency, as shown in Table
  4 where the ratio is split on 6.41% At Review, 10.26% Waiting before
  Change and 8.97% At Change. An illustrative instance is presented in
  [52], where a developer sought assistance from GPT in generating code
  to retrieve remote resources, and GPT responded with a Python-based
  implementation. We identified several cases in which reviewers expressed
  disagreement with the solutions generated by GPT. One such example is
  documented in [53], where the reviewer remarked, "I will not blindly accept
  any AI-generated code" and "using GPT so might not work as intended.".
■ Bug fixing:. This task ranks as the second most common use case for
  GPT assistance, occurring primarily during the Review phase (25.64%)
  and to a lesser extent during the Change phase (21.80%). In many in-
  stances, developers consult GPT to diagnose why a specific piece of code is
  not functioning correctly or to request help in fixing an error (e.g., “GPT
  found 2 config files not exist in the dataset list.”) [54]. GPT-generated
  suggestions also include improvements such as adding error-handling logic
  —for example: “The code does not seem to have any error handling. This
  could lead to unexpected behavior if an error occurs. Consider adding try-
  catch blocks to handle potential errors.” [55].
■ Testing: We find few cases where developers ask for GPT-assisted about
  testing related tasks in our sample (every single character of tests is gen-
  erated by GPT-4 ) [56], (I have added the shorthand option -f for the –files
  flag in the _ask.py file and updated the test case in test_gpt_cli.py.)[30].
  We also notice that the testing inquiries to GPT were for more complex
  tasks such as classes and core logic testing (Chat GPT says this might
  work: the class AZDemoContentTest extends QuickstartFunctionalTest-
  Base...)[57].
■ Documentation: We observe that developers utilize GPT both for gener-
  ating new documentation — such as implementation descriptions in mark-
  down files or tutorials on how to use specific functionalities [58] — and
  for modifying existing documentation, including improving navigability,
  enhancing readability and formatting, and updating outdated links [59].
  Notably, in most instances, GPT-generated suggestions pertain to the
  README (.md) file [60, 61].
■ Other tasks: We notice that At Changed Phase and At Waiting before
  Change, non-programming related tasks count for the most requested ac-
  tivity with 28.20% and 17.95% respectively. Among the most common
  questions developers ask GPT for suggestions are about translation, file
  versions, and setting up CD/CI workflows (YAML files, file configuration,
  Docker, Kubernetes), Copyright, and User Interfaces [62, 63, 64].


                                    19
Table 4: Frequency of Tasks That Developers Ask GPT for Assistance in PR Phases Within
a Sample of 310 GPT PRs
         Tasks      At Review %        At Waiting for change %         At Change %
   Enhancement              60.26                         42.31               35.90
 Implementation              6.41                         10.26                8.97
       Bug Fix              25.64                         15.38               21.80
        Testing              1.28                          0.00                5.13
 Documentation              11.54                         12.82               10.26
         Other              12.82                         17.95               28.20

Note: Tasks may overlap across phases. A single GPT-assisted PR can involve multiple task
types (e.g., enhancement and bug fix) and appear in more than one phase (review, waiting
for change, or change). Therefore, percentages are not mutually exclusive and may sum to
more than 100%.




    Answer to RQ3. Contributors and reviewers mainly use GPT to assist
    with coding enhancements, bug fixes, and documentation. It is partic-
    ularly useful during the review phase, helping to identify and resolve
    issues, refine code, and improve documentation. However, its use for
    creating new features or writing tests is less common. This pattern in-
    dicates that GPT primarily functions as a support tool for enhancing
    existing code rather than creating new components. This contributes to
    the effectiveness and quality of the code review process.


5. Discussion

5.1. Implications for Practitioners
     These findings have important implications for practitioners. Developers can
integrate GPT-assisted PR into their phases to accelerate code reviews, reduce
latency, and improve collaboration. In doing so, organizations can streamline
their code review processes and focus on delivering value more efficiently. In
addition, establishing best practices for the use of GPT-assisted can further
enhance its effectiveness and ensure seamless adoption across teams. By inte-
grating GPT into the pull request (PR) process, teams can significantly reduce
review times, expedite the implementation of changes, and minimize waiting pe-
riods, ultimately streamlining their code review cycles. This efficiency gain al-
lows developers to focus more on delivering value rather than being hindered by
prolonged code review timelines. To maximize the effectiveness of GPT, teams
should consider developing best practices for its use. For example, defining spe-
cific scenarios where GPT as assistance is most beneficial, such as refactoring
code, resolving bugs, and enhancing documentation, can help ensure its targeted
and efficient application. Additionally, encouraging collaboration between de-
velopers and reviewers when leveraging GPT can help maintain high-quality
outcomes and prevent over-reliance on automated tools.


                                           20
5.2. Implications for Researchers
    An important avenue for future research lies in examining the risks of user
over-reliance on GPT in code review processes. While generative AI tools like
ChatGPT offer remarkable potential to streamline code review phases and en-
hance productivity, there is a need to understand how unproductive interac-
tions with ChatGPT might emerge and how these could undermine efficiency
or decision-making. Identifying patterns of ineffective GPT use can help re-
searchers propose strategies to optimize its integration into code review prac-
tices in real-world scenarios. Future studies could focus on designing frameworks
and interfaces that guide users toward more effective use of GPT while main-
taining control of their code review workflow. For instance, developing tools
that provide metrics on the quality (i.e., reliability, usability, maintainability,
testability of the code generated), confidence, or relevance of GPT’s solutions,
enabling users to make more informed decisions and ensuring that developers
maintain direction and avoid veering into unproductive tasks.
    Moreover, researchers could explore the development of features that en-
courage reflective practices, such as visualizations that compare GPT’s sugges-
tions with best practices or community standards. These features could help
users critically evaluate AI-generated solutions rather than passively adopting
them. Such studies should examine their impact on developer productivity,
decision-making, and team dynamics over time. Longitudinal studies could pro-
vide valuable insights into how extended use of GPT affects user skill retention,
adaptability, and overall collaboration in software engineering.


6. Threats to Validity

    In this section, we discuss the threats to the internal and external validity
of our study.

6.1. Construct Validity
    Construct validity concerns whether the study measurements accurately cap-
ture the concept of GPT assistance and its effects on the PR review process.
In this study, GPT use was identified through explicit mentions of the keyword
“GPT” in PRs, which may introduce false negatives (when GPT assistance is
used but not explicitly mentioned) and false positives (when “GPT” appears in
unrelated contexts). This limitation could bias the classification of PRs as GPT-
assisted and affect the precision of the findings. Although a semi-automated
verification step mitigated this issue, future work could employ more robust
NLP-based intent analysis for detection. Another threat arises from how GPT
assistance is operationally defined. The study uses heuristic rules to label PRs as
GPT-assisted or non-assisted, which may lead to misclassifications when contrib-
utors do not document GPT use explicitly. To address this, manual inspections
were conducted to refine the heuristics, achieving high labeling precision (95%),
and substantial inter-rater agreement was confirmed using Cohen’s Kappa, with
discrepancies resolved by consensus among authors. The measurement of PR


                                        21
phases (e.g., review and waiting) using GitHub timestamps and events provides
an objective foundation but may overlook qualitative aspects such as interac-
tion complexity or the nature of the contributions by GPT. Inconsistencies in
event logging across projects were mitigated by cross-checking phase definitions
and excluding anomalous data. Furthermore, attributing observed reductions in
PR phase durations solely to GPT assistance remains challenging, as other fac-
tors, such as task simplicity or team dynamics, could also influence outcomes.
Although linear modeling accounted for some confounders (e.g., project age,
number of commits), residual confounding may persist. Finally, developer in-
teractions with GPT are not fully captured by temporal metrics; aspects such
as behavioral or cognitive effects require further qualitative exploration. Future
studies could integrate developer surveys or interviews to deepen understanding
of how GPT shapes collaboration and review practices.

6.2. Internal Validity
    Internal validity addresses the extent to which the observed effects can be
causally attributed to GPT assistance rather than other influencing factors.
Several potential confounding variables, such as code change complexity, devel-
oper experience, and team workflow dynamics, can have affected PR resolution
time independently of GPT use. Although the study controls for some of these
confounders using regression models, residual effects could still persist. Future
research could strengthen control through methods such as matching or propen-
sity score analysis to account for unobserved variables. Another concern relates
to task categorization since developers may interpret or record their use of GPT
differently, leading to inconsistencies in how tasks are classified. Such subjec-
tivity could skew results and obscure patterns regarding the types of assistance
most frequently used. Finally, while the study observes reduced time across
various code review phases for GPT-assisted PRs, it remains crucial to verify
that these reductions are genuinely attributable to the contributions of GPT
rather than from external factors such as more efficient developers or inherently
simpler tasks. Ensuring that time savings reflect true GPT influence is essential
to maintaining the internal validity of the findings.

6.3. External Validity
    External validity concerns the extent to which the findings of this study
can be generalized beyond the specific context analyzed. Since the dataset is
derived exclusively from GitHub, the results may be influenced by platform-
specific characteristics, such as community norms or review workflows, that
differ from those on other platforms like GitLab or Bitbucket. The study also
focuses on repositories with at least ten stars, ensuring a baseline level of activity
but potentially introducing selection bias, as less popular or private repositories
may exhibit different development and review practices. Additionally, the wide
variability among PRs (in terms of code size, complexity, and task type) poses
challenges to generalization, as these factors can affect both the use and impact
of GPT assistance. To enhance external validity, future research could incor-
porate data from multiple platforms, include a broader range of repositories,


                                         22
and apply stratified sampling or clustering techniques to better capture task
diversity and contextual differences


7. Conclusion

    This study highlights the potential of generative AI tools, particularly LLMs
such as ChatGPT, to enhance collaborative software development. Through an
analysis of their application in GitHub PRs, we observe substantial improve-
ments across key phases of the PR workflow, most notably within the review
phase, which exhibits a 66.7% reduction in review time and an 87.5% decrease
in waiting time for acceptance. These results show the capacity of GPT to im-
prove code review efficiency and support diverse tasks, including code enhance-
ment, bug resolution, and documentation generation, with the most significant
gains occurring during the review process. While the contributions of GPT are
clearly beneficial in certain phases, its limited influence during the submission
and post-acceptance phases points to areas for further development and opti-
mization. Future research should investigate how GPT can be more effectively
integrated across the entire PR lifecycle and evaluate its impact on long-term
productivity. As LLMs continue to advance, they are poised to become essential
components of software engineering, promoting greater efficiency, collaboration,
and code quality. By harnessing the capabilities of these tools, both practi-
tioners and researchers can shape the evolution of collaborative development
workflows and drive innovation in the field of software engineering.


Author Contributions

    Antonio Collante: Conceptualization, Methodology, Software, Investiga-
tion, Data Curation, Writing Original Draft, Writing - Review and Editing,
Visualization Samuel Abedu: Conceptualization, Software, Data Curation,
Writing - Review and Editing SayedHassan Khatoonabadi: Conceptualiza-
tion, Methodology, Validation, Writing - Review and Editing, Project Adminis-
tration Ahmad Abdellatif: Conceptualization, Validation, Writing - Review
and Editing Ebube Alor: Data Curation Emad Shihab: Conceptualization,
Supervision, Project Administration, Funding Acquisition


Acknowledgements

   This work was supported by the NSERC CREATE grant number 555406,
2021.


References

 [1] G. Gousios, M. Pinzger, A. v. Deursen, An exploratory study of the pull-
     based software development model, in: Proceedings of the 36th interna-
     tional conference on software engineering, 2014, pp. 345–355.


                                       23
 [2] C. Sadowski, E. Söderberg, L. Church, M. Sipko, A. Bacchelli, Modern code
     review: a case study at google, in: Proceedings of the 40th international
     conference on software engineering: Software engineering in practice, 2018,
     pp. 181–190.
 [3] A. Bacchelli, C. Bird, Expectations, outcomes, and challenges of modern
     code review, in: 2013 35th International Conference on Software Engineer-
     ing (ICSE), IEEE, 2013, pp. 712–721.
 [4] X. Zhang, Y. Yu, G. Gousios, A. Rastogi, Pull request decisions explained:
     An empirical overview, IEEE Transactions on Software Engineering 49
     (2022) 849–871.

 [5] G. Kudrjavets, A. Kumar, N. Nagappan, A. Rastogi, Mining code review
     data to understand waiting times between acceptance and merging: An
     empirical analysis, in: Proceedings of the 19th International Conference on
     Mining Software Repositories, 2022, pp. 579–590.
 [6] O. Baysal, O. Kononenko, R. Holmes, M. W. Godfrey, Investigating tech-
     nical and non-technical factors influencing modern code review, Empirical
     Software Engineering 21 (2016) 932–959.
 [7] Y. Zheng, Y. Yang, H. Tu, Y. Huang, Code-survey: An llm-driven method-
     ology for analyzing large-scale codebases, arXiv preprint arXiv:2410.01837
     (2024).

 [8] A. Vaswani, N. Shazeer, N. Parmar, J. Uszkoreit, L. Jones, A. N. Gomez,
     Ł. Kaiser, I. Polosukhin, Attention is all you need, Advances in neural
     information processing systems 30 (2017).
 [9] R. Tufano, A. Mastropaolo, F. Pepe, O. Dabić, M. Di Penta, G. Bavota,
     Unveiling chatgpt’s usage in open source projects: A mining-based study,
     in: 2024 IEEE/ACM 21st International Conference on Mining Software
     Repositories (MSR), IEEE, 2024, pp. 571–583.
[10] C. Ebert, P. Louridas, Generative ai for software practitioners, IEEE
     Software 40 (2023) 30–38.

[11] B. Grewal, W. Lu, S. Nadi, C.-P. Bezemer, Analyzing developer use of chat-
     gpt generated code in open source github projects, in: 2024 IEEE/ACM
     21st International Conference on Mining Software Repositories (MSR),
     IEEE, 2024, pp. 157–161.
[12] M. Chouchen, N. Bessghaier, M. Begoug, A. Ouni, E. A. AlOmar, M. W.
     Mkaouer, How do software developers use chatgpt? an exploratory study
     on github pull requests, in: 2024 IEEE/ACM 21st International Conference
     on Mining Software Repositories (MSR), IEEE, 2024, pp. 212–216.




                                      24
[13] Z. Rasheed, M. A. Sami, M. Waseem, K.-K. Kemell, X. Wang, A. Nguyen,
     K. Systä, P. Abrahamsson, Ai-powered code review with llms: Early re-
     sults, arXiv preprint arXiv:2404.18496 (2024).
[14] T. Xiao, H. Hata, C. Treude, K. Matsumoto, Generative ai for pull request
     descriptions: Adoption, impact, and developer interventions, Proceedings
     of the ACM on Software Engineering 1 (2024) 1043–1065.
[15] N. Davila, J. Melegati, I. Wiese, Tales from the trenches: Expectations
     and challenges from practice for code review in the generative ai era, IEEE
     Software (2024).

[16] alshedivat, Pull request #2059, 2018. URL: https://github.com/
     alshedivat/al-folio/pull/2059, accessed on: Oct. 28, 2024.
[17] D. Moreira Soares, M. L. de Lima Júnior, L. Murta, A. Plastino, What
     factors influence the lifetime of pull requests?, Software: Practice and
     Experience 51 (2021) 1173–1193.

[18] N. Davila, I. Nunes, A systematic literature review and taxonomy of mod-
     ern code review, Journal of Systems and Software 177 (2021) 110951.
[19] R. Widyasari, T. Zhang, A. Bouraffa, W. Maalej, D. Lo, Explaining expla-
     nation: An empirical study on explanation in code reviews, arXiv preprint
     arXiv:2311.09020 (2023).

[20] T. Rose, Towards Understanding What Factors Affect Pull Request Merges,
     Ph.D. thesis, Carleton University, 2017.
[21] S. Khatoonabadi, A. Abdellatif, D. E. Costa, E. Shihab, Predicting the first
     response latency of maintainers and contributors in pull requests, IEEE
     Transactions on Software Engineering (2024).

[22] S. Khatoonabadi, D. E. Costa, R. Abdalkareem, E. Shihab, On wasted
     contributions: Understanding the dynamics of contributor-abandoned pull
     requests—a mixed-methods study of 10 large open-source projects, ACM
     Transactions on Software Engineering and Methodology 32 (2023) 1–39.

[23] M. Vijayvergiya, M. Salawa, I. Budiselić, D. Zheng, P. Lamblin,
     M. Ivanković, J. Carin, M. Lewko, J. Andonov, G. Petrović, et al., Ai-
     assisted assessment of coding practices in modern code review, in: Pro-
     ceedings of the 1st ACM International Conference on AI-Powered Software,
     2024, pp. 85–93.

[24] Y. Yu, G. Rong, H. Shen, H. Zhang, D. Shao, M. Wang, Z. Wei, Y. Xu,
     J. Wang, Fine-tuning large language models to improve accuracy and com-
     prehensibility of automated code review, ACM Transactions on Software
     Engineering and Methodology (2024).



                                       25
[25] H. Hao, K. A. Hasan, H. Qin, M. Macedo, Y. Tian, S. H. Ding, A. E.
     Hassan, An empirical study on developers’ shared conversations with chat-
     gpt in github pull requests and issues, Empirical Software Engineering 29
     (2024) 150.
[26] J. K. Das, S. Mondal, C. Roy, Investigating the utility of chatgpt in the
     issue tracking system: An exploratory study, in: Proceedings of the 21st
     International Conference on Mining Software Repositories, 2024, pp. 217–
     221.
[27] U. Cihan, V. Haratian, A. İçöz, M. K. Gül, Ö. Devran, E. F. Bayendur,
     B. M. Uçar, E. Tüzün, Automated code review in practice, in: 2025
     IEEE/ACM 47th International Conference on Software Engineering: Soft-
     ware Engineering in Practice (ICSE-SEIP), IEEE, 2025, pp. 425–436.
[28] S. Ramesh, J. Bose, H. Singh, A. Raghavan, S. Roychowdhury, G. Sridhara,
     N. Saini, R. Britto, Automated code review using large language models
     at ericsson: An experience report, arXiv preprint arXiv:2507.19115 (2025).

[29] Github rest api documentation, 2024. URL: https://docs.github.com/
     en/rest?apiVersion=2022-11-28.
[30] dciborow, Pull request #43, 2023. URL: https://github.com/
     microsoft/gpt-review/pull/43/, accessed on: Oct. 28, 2024.

[31] onasito, Pull request #64, 2024. URL: https://github.com/onasito/
     Group-5/pull/64, accessed on: Oct. 28, 2024.
[32] Rbx2Source, Pull request #16, 2024. URL: https://github.com/
     LockpickInteractive/Rbx2Source/pull/16, accessed on: Oct. 28, 2024.
[33] meowstatus, Pull request #1, 2024. URL: https://github.com/
     aludmilagdev/meow_status/pull/1, accessed on: Oct. 28, 2024.
[34] H. Borges, M. T. Valente, What’s in a github star? understanding reposi-
     tory starring practices in a social coding platform, Journal of Systems and
     Software 146 (2018) 112–129.

[35] K. Krippendorff, Content Analysis: An Introduction to Its Methodology,
     SAGE Publications, 2011.
[36] D. Jurafsky, J. H. Martin, Speech and Language Processing (3rd
     ed. draft), Draft online version, 2023. https://web.stanford.edu/
     ~jurafsky/slp3/3.pdf.

[37] M. Malkauthekar, Analysis of euclidean distance and manhattan distance
     measure in face recognition, in: Third International Conference on Compu-
     tational Intelligence and Information Technology (CIIT 2013), IET, 2013,
     pp. 503–507.



                                      26
[38] X. Ye, Y. Zheng, W. Aljedaani, M. W. Mkaouer, Recommending pull
     request reviewers based on code changes, Soft Computing 25 (2021) 5619–
     5632.
[39] Q. Liu, B. Shepherd, C. Li, Presiduals: An r package for residual
     analysis using probability-scale residuals, Journal of Statistical Soft-
     ware 94 (2020) 1–27. URL: https://www.jstatsoft.org/index.php/
     jss/article/view/v094i12. doi:10.18637/jss.v094.i12.
[40] GitHub, Rest api endpoints for timeline events, 2022. URL: https://
     docs.github.com/en/rest/issues/timeline?apiVersion=2022-11-28,
     accessed on: Oct. 28, 2024.

[41] Q. Guo, J. Cao, X. Xie, S. Liu, X. Li, B. Chen, X. Peng, Exploring the
     potential of chatgpt in automated code refinement: An empirical study, in:
     Proceedings of the 46th IEEE/ACM International Conference on Software
     Engineering, 2024, pp. 1–13.
[42] M. Watanabe, Y. Kashiwa, B. Lin, T. Hirao, K. Yamaguchi, H. Iida, On
     the use of chatgpt for code review: Do developers like reviews by chatgpt?,
     in: Proceedings of the 28th International Conference on Evaluation and
     Assessment in Software Engineering, 2024, pp. 375–380.
[43] G. James, D. Witten, T. Hastie, R. Tibshirani, et al., An introduction to
     statistical learning, volume 112, Springer, 2013.

[44] D. A. N. d. Silva, D. M. Soares, S. A. Gonçalves, Measuring unique changes:
     How do distinct changes affect the size and lifetime of pull requests?, in:
     Proceedings of the 14th Brazilian Symposium on Software Components,
     Architectures, and Reuse, 2020, pp. 121–130.

[45] J. H. Bernardo, D. A. da Costa, U. Kulesza, Studying the impact of adopt-
     ing continuous integration on the delivery time of pull requests, in: Pro-
     ceedings of the 15th International Conference on Mining Software Reposi-
     tories, 2018, pp. 131–141.
[46] N. Nachar, et al., The mann-whitney u: A test for assessing whether
     two independent samples come from the same distribution, Tutorials in
     quantitative Methods for Psychology 4 (2008) 13–20.
[47] C. Feng, H. Wang, N. Lu, T. Chen, H. He, Y. Lu, X. M. Tu, Log-
     transformation and its implications for data analysis., Shanghai archives
     of psychiatry 26 (2014) 105–109.

[48] S. Nakagawa, P. C. Johnson, H. Schielzeth, The coefficient of determi-
     nation r 2 and intra-class correlation coefficient from generalized linear
     mixed-effects models revisited and expanded, Journal of the Royal Society
     Interface 14 (2017) 20170213.



                                      27
[49] D. Chavalarias, J. D. Wallach, A. H. T. Li, J. P. Ioannidis, Evolution of
     reporting p values in the biomedical literature, 1990-2015, Jama 315 (2016)
     1141–1148.
[50] T. J. Cole, D. G. Altman, Statistics notes: What is a percentage difference?,
     Bmj 358 (2017).
[51] H. B. Mann, D. R. Whitney, On a test of whether one of two random
     variables is stochastically larger than the other, The annals of mathematical
     statistics (1947) 50–60.
[52] qiyunzhu, Pull request #1858, 2023. URL: https://github.com/
     scikit-bio/scikit-bio/pull/1858#issuecomment-1583219957,  ac-
     cessed on: Oct. 28, 2024.
[53] JohnBeres, Pull request #188, 2023. URL: https://github.com/flaree/
     flare-cogs/pull/188, accessed on: Oct. 28, 2024.
[54] haileyschoelkopf, Pull request #1171, 2023. URL: https://github.com/
     EleutherAI/lm-evaluation-harness/pull/1171, accessed on: Oct. 28,
     2024.
[55] islxyqwe, Pull request #238, 2023. URL: https://github.com/Kanaries/
     graphic-walker/pull/238, accessed on: Oct. 28, 2024.
[56] alexander cit, Pull request #4616, 2023. URL: https://github.com/
     CitizenLabDotCo/citizenlab/pull/4616#issuecomment-1514994078,
     accessed on: Oct. 28, 2024.
[57] trackleft, Pull request #3108, 2024. URL: https://github.com/
     az-digital/az_quickstart/pull/3109#issuecomment-1901093471, ac-
     cessed on: Oct. 28, 2024.
[58] rudolfolah, Pull request #109, 2023. URL: https://github.com/
     rhasspy/piper/pull/109, accessed on: Oct. 28, 2024.
[59] potiuk, Pull request #28300, 2022. URL: https://github.com/apache/
     airflow/pull/28300, accessed on: Oct. 28, 2024.
[60] cloud26, Pull request #36, 2023. URL: https://github.com/
     codedog-ai/codedog/pull/36, accessed on: Oct. 28, 2024.
[61] okotek, Pull request #736, 2024. URL: https://github.com/Codium-ai/
     pr-agent/pull/736, accessed on: Oct. 28, 2024.
[62] rusackas, Pull request #27905, 2024. URL: https://github.com/apache/
     superset/pull/27905, accessed on: Oct. 28, 2024.
[63] yceballost, Pull request #1122, 2023. URL: https://github.com/
     Telefonica/mistica-design/pull/1122, accessed on: Oct. 28, 2024.
[64] clearlysid, Pull request #31, 2024. URL: https://github.com/
     helmerapp/micro/pull/31, accessed on: Oct. 28, 2024.


                                       28
Appendix A. Tables

   In the following, we provide the GPT PRs during a Round 1, the accuracy
across rounds after applying heuristics, and a summary of the GPT Assisted
PR Dataset by Status.


                Table A.5: GPT PRs during a Round of Sampling Analysis
                  Filter             Assistance       Non Assistance
                  Project name                4                   21
                  PR title                    6                   19
                  Modified files             23                   58
                  PR body                     1                   24
                  Total                      34                  122
Note: Some GPT-assisted PRs matched two or more filters simultaneously. The total count
(34) reflects overlaps between categories, not distinct PRs per filter. For example, a single
PR might be identified as GPT-assisted based on both its title and modified files,
contributing to multiple row counts.




        Table A.6: Accuracy Improvement across Rounds after Applying Heuristics
         Heuristic      Round 1 (%)          Round 2 (%)           Round 3 (%)
           H1               82                   98                     98
           H2               98                   97                    100
           H3               96                   97                     97
           H4               66                   95                     97
Note: Each round corresponds to one iteration of refinement, where heuristics were
introduced to correct common misclassifications.




                Table A.7: Summary: GPT Assisted PR Dataset by Status
                                 Status      Assistance
                                 Open                 54
                                 Closed              179
                                 Merged             1367
                                 Total             1600




                                             29
