                                         An Empirical Study on Code Review Activity Prediction and
                                         Its Impact in Practice
                                         DORIANE OLEWICKI, Queen’s University, Canada
arXiv:2404.10703v2 [cs.SE] 13 May 2024




                                         SARRA HABCHI, Ubisoft, Canada
                                         BRAM ADAMS, Queen’s University, Canada
                                         During code reviews, an essential step in software quality assurance, reviewers have the difficult task of
                                         understanding and evaluating code changes to validate their quality and prevent introducing faults to the
                                         codebase. This is a tedious process where the effort needed is highly dependent on the code submitted, as well
                                         as the author’s and the reviewer’s experience, leading to median wait times for review feedback of 15-64 hours.
                                         Through an initial user study carried with 29 experts, we found that re-ordering the files changed by a patch
                                         within the review environment has potential to improve review quality, as more comments are written (+23%),
                                         and participants’ file-level hot-spot precision and recall increases to 53% (+13%) and 28% (+8%), respectively,
                                         compared to the alphanumeric ordering. Hence, this paper aims to help code reviewers by predicting which
                                         files in a submitted patch need to be (1) commented, (2) revised, or (3) are hot-spots (commented or revised). To
                                         predict these tasks, we evaluate two different types of text embeddings (i.e., Bag-of-Words and Large Language
                                         Models encoding) and review process features (i.e., code size-based and history-based features). Our empirical
                                         study on three open-source and two industrial datasets shows that combining the code embedding and review
                                         process features leads to better results than the state-of-the-art approach. For all tasks, F1-scores (median of
                                         40-62%) are significantly better than the state-of-the-art (from +1 to +9%).
                                         CCS Concepts: • Software and its engineering → Software maintenance tools.
                                         Additional Key Words and Phrases: Code review automation, Classification, Text embedding, Large Language
                                         Models, Review process features.
                                         ACM Reference Format:
                                         Doriane Olewicki, Sarra Habchi, and Bram Adams. 2024. An Empirical Study on Code Review Activity
                                         Prediction and Its Impact in Practice. Proc. ACM Softw. Eng. 1, FSE, Article 99 (July 2024), 23 pages. https:
                                         //doi.org/10.1145/3660806

                                         1   INTRODUCTION
                                         In software development, code reviewing is an essential quality assurance step during code integra-
                                         tion [22, 46]. Developers submit their code for review as a patch. Then, reviewers either validate
                                         the code change, which is then forwarded to integration, or they provide feedback. The review
                                         process can go through several iterations, where the reviewer comments on the submission to
                                         have the developer revise it and submit a new version, referred to as a revision. Eventually, if the
                                         developer addresses all comments, the patch is accepted, otherwise it is rejected.
                                            Given the essential role of code reviews in modern development [47], it is crucial to have a high
                                         code review velocity and effectiveness. Yet, Hong et al. report that developers waited a median of
                                         15-64 hours for reviewers’ feedback in three open source projects (i.e., Openstack Nova, Openstack
                                         Authors’ Contact Information: Doriane Olewicki, Queen’s University, Kingston, Canada, doriane.olewicki@queensu.ca;
                                         Sarra Habchi, Ubisoft, Montreal, Canada, sarra.habchi@ubisoft.com; Bram Adams, Queen’s University, Kingston, Canada,
                                         bram.adams@queensu.ca.

                                         Permission to make digital or hard copies of all or part of this work for personal or classroom use is granted without fee
                                         provided that copies are not made or distributed for profit or commercial advantage and that copies bear this notice and
                                         the full citation on the first page. Copyrights for third-party components of this work must be honored. For all other uses,
                                         contact the owner/author(s).
                                         © 2024 Copyright held by the owner/author(s).
                                         ACM 2994-970X/2024/7-ART99
                                         https://doi.org/10.1145/3660806


                                                                                     Proc. ACM Softw. Eng., Vol. 1, No. FSE, Article 99. Publication date: July 2024.
99:2                                                                    Doriane Olewicki, Sarra Habchi, and Bram Adams


Ironic and Qt Base) [31]. Those numbers were confirmed by our industrial partner company, which
has similar waiting times. Such long waiting times delay the integration of code and thus the
projects’ development and release time. Furthermore, other factors can cause review processes to
take a long time, including the reviewers involved (e.g., availability and experience), the submitted
code (e.g., patch size and complexity, developers’ experience) and the number of review iterations
needed [36]. Reviewers are usually developers on the project, who have to split their work time
between their own development tasks and reviews. Furthermore, they might have to review many
patches, themselves composed of many files and changes.
   In order to improve review effectiveness, Hong et al. [31] automate the identification of the
parts of patches that either need revisions or comments using a Bag-of-Words (BoW) embedding
and two review process features (i.e., number of lines added and removed). As BoW embeddings
do not represent the order of words such as Large Language Model (LLM) embeddings preferred
in recent NLP-based tasks [32] do, we suspect that the former do not capture enough context.
With approaches such as risk/bug prediction using software process features [25, 34, 40], it is also
unknown how that type of embedding performs in the context of review activities.
   Furthermore, while all patch revisions are assumed to map to a corresponding review comment,
revisions could also be triggered by a review comment on a different file or patch, or through
communication external to the reviewing platform (e.g., in-person), yielding an incomplete ground
truth. Hence, to be comprehensive, automation should not only target problematic parts of a patch
requiring either a comment or a revision, but the union of these, which we refer to as hot-spots.
   Prediction of review activity needs has potential to assist reviewers through multiple use cases,
such as adding warnings in the code for reviewers to focus on [29] or re-ordering files [33, 44]. In
this paper, we focused on the latter. In a wizard-of-oz user study with 29 professional developers,
we find that, inspired by Fregnan et al.’s suggestion to “display first those files that are more
critical” [23], hot-spot based file re-ordering correlates with improved review comment quality. In
particular, more review comments were provided (+23%), and those comments were better targeted
towards known hot-spots (+13% precision and +8% recall) compared to the alphanumeric ordering.
Even though reviewers would still be required to look at the rest of a patch, automated identification
of hot-spots would attract the reviewer’s attention earlier to the most critical parts.
   Hence, in order to improve the file-level prediction of three review tasks (i.e., need for comment,
need for review, is an hot-spot) in terms of prediction performance and of the computation cost of
embeddings and model training, our paper studies the impact of text embeddings and of review
process feature-based embeddings. We focus on file-level prediction due to its natural fit with
the use case of prioritizing files in a submitted patch. Our empirical evaluation on three large
open-source datasets and two closed-source datasets addresses the following research questions:
   RQ1: Which text embeddings of code diffs perform best for review activity prediction?
Although none of the specific text embedding stands out as the best, we found that applying any
(or both) of our text embedding modifications, i.e., including removed lines as an additional context
embedding or using a Large Language Model embedding instead of the Bag-of-Word approach,
improved the performances in practice. In practice, our approaches report higher AUC in 13 out
of 15 cases (median of 68-78%, improvement up to +5%) and higher F1-score in 10 out of 15 cases
(median of 37-57%, improvement up to +4%) than the baseline.
   RQ2: Which review process features perform best for review activity prediction? Closed-
source datasets show no significant differences between the best text embedding and review process
feature embedding (median F1-score 37-56%, with an improvement in practice of +2 to +8%), thus
matching performance while reducing the embedding dimensionality. On the other hand, for open-
source datasets, feature-based embeddings perform similarly to better than the best text embedding
in 5 out of 9 cases (median F1-score of 50-58%, improvement up to +4%) and lower in the other 4

Proc. ACM Softw. Eng., Vol. 1, No. FSE, Article 99. Publication date: July 2024.
An Empirical Study on Code Review Activity Prediction and Its Impact in Practice                                    99:3


cases (median F1-score 36-56%, lower by -2 to -15%). This shows that text embeddings have value
as they capture relevant code/text information, not represented in the feature-based embeddings.
We also find that the size-based features are the most important features for all datasets, as they
bring information about the changed file (e.g., size, number of changes) but also context about the
full patch size. The history-based features, though less important, also improve performance.
   RQ3: How does the combination of review process features with text embeddings
perform for review activity prediction? Compared to the state-of-the-art, our proposal of
combining text embedding with review process features improved significantly the F1-score (median
of 40-62%) for all datasets and all tasks, improving the results by up to +9%.
   Finally, through an additional empirical analysis we confirm the user study’s promise of hot-spot
based file re-ordering, as our model predictions push +9-50% more hot-spots forward into the first
half/quarter of file patches shown to reviewers compared to alphanumerical order.
   This paper’s contributions are:

    • A user study evaluating hot-spot-based file re-ordering;
    • An empirical study of review activity prediction per-project and at file-level on 5 large
      datasets (including 2 closed-sources);
    • 3 types of review activity labels: revised, commented, and hot-spot (either of the prior);
    • A comparison of text embeddings from a Large Language Model and Bag-of-Words embedding,
      as well as the inclusion of only added lines or also including removed lines;
    • Analysis of lightweight review process features;
    • A replication package with the open-source dataset [4].


2   BACKGROUND AND RELATED WORK
For years, the software engineering domain has proposed approaches to help developers in tasks
such as defect prediction [12, 40, 41], code recommendation [51], and others [6, 17, 35, 42, 60]. In
the last 10 years, the focus has moved towards helping reviewers as well, regarding subjects such as
reviewer recommendation [45, 52, 53], code change ordering [10], code diff quality [31, 37], review
comment recommendation [26, 30, 37, 50, 54, 55], review comment evaluation [13, 21? ] and code
refinement [37, 54, 55]. In this paper, we focus on the subject of code diff quality, by identifying
code submissions needing review activity (i.e., revisions and/or comments). Bosu et al. reported
that 34.50% of code review comments from five major Microsoft projects that they studied are not
“useful”, i.e., did not lead to code modification, thus arguing the need for code review evaluation [13].
However, we consider that any review activity has a high value. Submission of a revision indicates
that the code needed to be modified due to an issue (e.g., bug or efficiency) or did not follow some
code convention of the team. Review comments have also value as they might indicate unclarity in
the code (e.g., the nomenclature is not clear), the need for changes in another part of the submission,
or the need for a future code submission treated separately. As both revisions and comment have
value, we also want to predict "hot-spots" as changes that requires any of those review activities.
   Li et al. explored code diff quality in order to identify parts of the code change that need review
comments [37]. Their approach uses a Text-To-Text Transfer Transformer (T5) that takes as input
the code change and returns a probability that the code change needs a comment. Their T5 is
pre-trained on a dataset composed of on code diffs. Hong et al. proposed the “RevSpot" approach to
predict problematic lines, i.e., lines that will be commented on by the reviewer or revised [31]. Their
approach uses input based on code vocabulary and they train classification models such as Random
Forest and Naive Bayes. This simpler training approach has the advantage of being less costly,


                                         Proc. ACM Softw. Eng., Vol. 1, No. FSE, Article 99. Publication date: July 2024.
99:4                                                                    Doriane Olewicki, Sarra Habchi, and Bram Adams


whereas fine-tuning a T5 model is known to be computationally expensive. The classification-
based approach reports similar results on the "commented" prediction task, indicating that the
computational effort of fine-tuning an LLM might not be relevant for this task.
   We also explore in this paper the use of Large Language Model (LLM) encoders for text embed-
ding. LLM are models trained to solve Natural Language tasks. They distinguish themselves from
Language Models (LM) due to the size large number of parameters if the LLM models [32]. The
need for large models comes from the observation that the more parameters are added, the better
the LM model performs [59]. LLMs are used in three main types of architectures: encoder-only,
encoder-decoder and decoder-only. Encoder-only architectures take text as input and generate an
embedding, i.e., an abstracted representation of the code in the form of a vector capturing the text’s
semantics [20]. Encoder-decoder architectures take text as input, then generate an intermediate
embedding state that is itself fed as input to the decoder [27, 56]. The intermediate state is used as
a way to represent the connection between various inputs and outputs. This type of architecture is
usually used for translation tasks or question-answering. Finally, the decoder-only architectures
use a decoder to generate text, usually in a sequential prediction paradigm. This type of model has
been vastly popularized over the last few years with GPT models [43] and ChatGPT [1].
   LLMs have been used in the context of Software Engineering for multiple tasks, such as code
synthesis/generation [7, 61], review automation [37, 54, 55], and code fuzzing [19]. In this paper,
we focus on the encoder-only type of task, as we use the LLM as a text embedding approach. The
advantage of this is that we can use a pre-trained LLM model as a zero-shot encoder, where we
do not fine-tune the LLM. The embedding is then used as input to a classifier, easier to train, thus
giving a more cost-effective and lower computation-time training approach. Previous studies have
found "simpler" approaches such as classification models to be similar, and sometimes even better,
than Deep Learning (DL) approaches in the context of software engineering tasks in terms of both
performance [24, 28] and speed [39], which motivates our use of classifiers on top of a zero-shot
LLM embeddings instead of fine-tuning a LLM encoder-decoder model.
   Other past works regarding bug prediction [25], risk prediction [40, 49] and quality assurance [34]
have shown good performance by using software process features. Those features range from
size-based features (e.g., number of lines added, removed), contextual features (e.g., size of the
patch), and history-based features (e.g., number of times a file was changed, number of participants
on a file), to experience-based features (e.g., experience of developers/reviewers). However, review
process prediction tasks have not considered exploring those types of features yet, apart from Hong
et al. considering only the two following features: number of lines added and the number of lines
removed [31]. Exploring review process features approaches is thus one of the goals of this paper.

3      MOTIVATIONAL USE CASE
By default, most review tools list the changed files of a patch in alphanumeric order, even though
previous work argues that this might be suboptimal, especially for long code submissions [8, 9]. Yet,
it is common, especially in closed-source datasets, to have many file changes in a patch, making the
review process more difficult and time consuming. Case in point, across the five datasets studied in
section 5, we observed that 38-68% of patches are composed of more than 2 files, while in the two
closed-source datasets, 25-30% of patches have more than 5 files.
    Baum et al. established principles for code change ordering to help reviewers become more
effective [10], while Li et al. [37] and Hong et al. [31] predict submission (patch) parts that need
either review comments or a revision, yet neither of them explore or discuss the use of code diff
quality as a way to prioritize the code change order. Fregnan et al.’s user study indicated that the
earlier a file is shown in a patch, the more likely it is to be commented on [23], hence suggesting to
prioritize files that need review activity to the beginning of a patch.

Proc. ACM Softw. Eng., Vol. 1, No. FSE, Article 99. Publication date: July 2024.
An Empirical Study on Code Review Activity Prediction and Its Impact in Practice                                      99:5


  In this motivation section, we empirically evaluate the impact of changed file reordering on
the review process, through a user study that assumes the availability of models able to perfectly
predict review hot-spots (i.e., any file requiring a comment or revision). If successful, this motivates
the need for improving current review activity prediction models.

3.1    User study set-up
We carried out a wizard-of-oz user study [18] to compare hot-spot-based ordering of a patch’s
changed files to the typical alphanumeric ordering 1 . The wizard-of-oz design means that we used
knowledge about the actual hot-spots in the oracle (obtained similarly as in Section 4.1), which is
useful to evaluate the promise of hot-spot prioritization for file reordering in optimal conditions
compared to the alphanumeric ordering used by most review tools [23]. The user study was held on
the premises of our industrial partner, and involved 29 developers with an average experience at the
company of 6 years, knowledgeable both in developing and reviewing for the studied closed-source
project, which is actively developed by more than 800 developers, with 3-4k patches per month.
    We structure the study as an A/B study according to which each participant is asked to review two
patches, one patch ordered alphanumerically ("Alph"), and one patch ordered based on hot-spots
("Hot"). We paired up participants such that each pair had to review the same two patches (P1,P2),
but with different file ordering to control for learning bias. For example, the first participant of the
pair would see P1-Alph followed by P2-Hot, while the second would see P1-Hot then P2-Alph. To
increase the variety of patches, each pair of participants would work on different sets of patches.
    In terms of participant recruitment in the project under study, we selected amongst the top 50%
most active reviewers in the last 6 months who also have been relatively active in the last month
(i.e., amongst top 40-50% reviewers). The latter choice aimed to find participants experienced in
performing reviews, but not overloaded, in order to improve the chances of them participating.
We then created pairs of participants that have worked on the same subsystems. For each pair, we
also identified a fallback option, i.e., a third participant that could be invited if one of the original
participants in the pair is unavailable or unresponsive. The sets were constructed in such a way
that all three participants had worked on common subsystems of the studied project.
    Each set was then associated with two patches (from the participants’ common subsystems) that
none of the participants had submitted or reviewed before. We selected only patches of exactly five
files, similar to Fregnan et al. [23]. This choice is motivated by the need for patches large enough
to observe the impact of ordering files while keeping the review effort manageable to attract more
participants. The selected patches were not older than 2 months prior to the study, had received
reviews, and needed at least one later revision or involved at least one thread of review comments.
    The user study was performed via a mock online review platform. The main page explained to
participants that they should not access any other platform to help them perform the review, and
provided access to the 2 patches to review. The actual review pages had a user interface mimicking
the review tool used at the company, but customized to allow us to change the file ordering. We
also incorporated back-end logic to monitor the start and end time of reviews and to record when
each changed file was visible on the screen during the review.
    The user study happened over the span of 15 work days, during which we contacted 16 pairs
(i.e., 32 participants for 16 patches) via our industrial partner’s internal chat application. 11 spare
participants from the invited pairs’ corresponding set had to be contacted. Out of the 43 contacted
participants, 29 performed the study, yielding 55 reviews in total (28 with alphanumeric ordering
and 27 for hot-spot-based ordering, thus, not all participants did both reviews). 20 patches were
reviewed with both ordering setups. The recruitment message mentioned that the participation
1 The study was approved by an ethical board. The certificate number is not disclosed to respect double-blind.



                                           Proc. ACM Softw. Eng., Vol. 1, No. FSE, Article 99. Publication date: July 2024.
99:6                                                                    Doriane Olewicki, Sarra Habchi, and Bram Adams


would take around 20 minutes (although most people took longer) and provided a link to our custom
review platform. While the participants were aware of the study being about review processes,
they were not explicitly told that we explored the impact of file re-ordering. Participants were not
offered any compensation for participation, but they participated during their work hours.

3.2    Results
Table 1 shows that the median duration of individual reviews was 11.4 minutes for both
orderings, without significant difference in distribution (Mann-Whitney test: p-val= .39).
Analyzing the review duration came with some challenges, as variations in duration can come from
many factors (e.g., participants’ review habits, distraction by other tasks). 4 reviews took more
than an hour, yet manual checking of the recorded review events (i.e., opening/closing of files and
insertion of review comments) revealed gaps of more than 40min of inactivity for all 4 data points.
We thus ignored those data points for the duration analysis. When aggregating the duration per
patch, 8 patches out of 17 required a longer duration using hot-spot-based ordering compared to
9/17 patches taking longer for alphanumeric.
   The order in which reviewers opened changed files tends to follow the provided order.
Table 1 shows the median/average ranking position of the five (ordered) files of each patch in
terms of when a file is opened for the first time. For instance, if in at least half of the patches for a
particular ordering file F1 is opened first, its median ranking position would be 1. We can see that
both the median and average ranking increase with the file number, except for file F5 (hot-spot
based). The latter exception seems to be due to some reviewers starting to opening files from the
end, and other reviewers opening a C++ file’s corresponding header file before opening other files.
The average ranking values show that the order can still vary a lot, depending on the reviewers’
experience with the given files, the types of files and their review habits.
   Across patches, we observe an average of 2.9 comments for hot-spot-based compared to
2.3 for alphanumeric (+23%) order. Table 2 shows that the total amount of submitted comments
on the hot-spot-based ordering is 77 comments, 12 comments more than the alphanumeric ordering,
even though one additional alphanumeric patch was reviewed. Among both sets of comments, 83%
of the comments seem to be actionable, while the rest comprise comprehension questions.
   Hot-spot-based ordering gathers 80% of review comments on the first 3 files, compared
to only 58% for alphanumeric ordering. This is somehow expected, as the hot-spots historically
observed in our datasets by definition are a good indication of where comments are needed.
   The participants’ review comments on hot-spot ordered patches show an increase in
precision (+13%) and recall (+8%) for finding hot-spots. By analyzing if the comments (1) are
equivalent to ground truth comments or (2) pinpoint the location of a later revision, we found that
40 comments (51%) of the hot-spot-based ordering identified actual hot-spots compared to only 27
(41%) of the alphanumeric order. On average, 1.5 comments per patch found a hot-spot in the case
of hot-spot-based ordering compared to 1 per patch for the baseline (+54%).
   It should be noted that two participants indicated to us that they felt “something wrong” with the
(hot-spot based) file ordering. In 3 out of the 27 reviews with hot-spot-based ordering that included
C++ code, a participant initially missed the header file (extension “.h”), wrote a comment about it
missing, then canceled the comment after seeing the missing file later in the ordering. This shows
us that certain files forcibly should be shown together even when using hot-spot-based ordering.
 File ordering has an impact on the review process. While there is no impact on review
 duration, the hot-spot-based ordering correlates with more comments (+23%) targeted at
 parts of the code known to need revising or commenting (+13% precision and +8% recall).
 This implies that it is important to improve prediction models of review hot-spots.

Proc. ACM Softw. Eng., Vol. 1, No. FSE, Article 99. Publication date: July 2024.
An Empirical Study on Code Review Activity Prediction and Its Impact in Practice                                    99:7


Table 1. User study’s patch run-through analysis: depending on the ordering approach, we report the number
of patches reviewed, the median (Med.) and Average (Ave.) duration of the review, and the median and average
ranking position of the files’ initial opening during the reviews.

                              #Patches                  Ranking position of files’ first opening
      Ordering                   Duration                   Median                   Average
                         Tot.
                               Med. Ave.             F1 F2 F3 F4 F5 F1 F2 F3 F4 F5
 Hot-spot-based          27    11.4m 13.6m           1   2.5 3    4    3    2.26 2.96 3.14 3.26 3.30
     Alpha               28    11.4m 10.4m           1   2   3    3.5 4     2.25 2.92 2.93 3.21 3.42

Table 2. User study’s review comment analysis: depending on the ordering approach, we report the total
number of comments, the comments’ position (files F1 to F5 or general Gen), the number of comments that
found hot-spots, and the number of hot-spot files that were commented on.

                                    #Comments                                    #Hot-spot files commented
    Ordering                       Position                       Found
                 Tot.                                                            Tot. Precision            Recall
                         F1 F2 F3 F4 F5 Gen                      Hot-spot
 Hot-spot-               36% 32% 12% 5% 6% 5%                      51%                   53%                28%
                 77                                                                23
  based                  (28) (25) (10) (4) (5) (5)                (40)               (out of 43)        (out of 80)
  Alpha-                 27% 15% 16% 23% 15% 1%                    41%                   40%                20%
                 65                                                                18
 numeric                 (18) (10) (11) (15) (10) (1)              (27)               (out of 44)        (out of 88)


4     METHODOLOGY FOR EMPIRICAL STUDY OF HOT-SPOT PREDICTION
Based on the findings of our user study that file re-ordering during review activities is helpful,
we want to explore how to improve the models for the three common review activity prediction
tasks (i.e., reviewed, commented, hot-spot). In particular, we empirically evaluate prediction models
using different variations of two kinds of embeddings (i.e., text-based and feature-based) on 5 large
datasets, amongst which 2 closed-source datasets.

4.1    Labeling
During review activities, reviewers comment on a patch, i.e., a code submission. Those patches
involve one to several commits, where the first commit is the initial submission and the follow-up
commits are revisions. Each commit contains changed files, which are composed of code line
additions and/or deletions. Line modifications are lines that receive both a deletion and addition.
Most diff tools will show the before and after versions of the file.
    Our review activity prediction tasks extend existing code diff quality prediction works [31, 37] in
order to highlight changed files that most likely should be commented on or revised. Past approaches
have used a binary labeling based on if the changed file was commented on or revised [31, 37].
Some works have also addressed the question of identifying useful comments, as they consider
that commented changes that do not lead to revisions are not useful [13]. However, we consider
such comments to still have value, as they can lead to future code submission or discussions.
    Hence, in this paper, we consider similar labels ("commented" and "revised") as prior works,
but also define a "hot-spot" label, which indicates whether a code change has any review activity
(i.e., comment, revisions, or both). This is because, while comments are meant to lead to revisions,
and revisions to be caused by comments, review comments might indicate the need for revisions
elsewhere in the patch or changes in future independent patches. Furthermore, we observe that
10-17% of patches across our datasets contain changes that are revised, while never commented,

                                         Proc. ACM Softw. Eng., Vol. 1, No. FSE, Article 99. Publication date: July 2024.
99:8                                                                    Doriane Olewicki, Sarra Habchi, and Bram Adams


                                       Table 3. Label descriptions (file-level).

 Label              Description
 Commented          Changed file receiving a review comment on any of its lines.
 Revised            Changed file for which at least one of its lines will be revised in a future patch.
 Hot-spot           Changed file that is either commented, revised, or both.


                               Table 4. The revision activity in the studied datasets.

                                          #Patches                                    #Changed files
 Project      Period         All      Com- Revi-               Hot-           All     Com- Revi-            Hot-
                                      mented sed               spot                   mented sed            spot
 Base          2 years      5,390     32%      31%             42%          18,950    13%    18%            23%
 Ironic        3 years      1,050     45%      38%             53%           4,193    16%    26%            31%
 Nova          3 years      3,678     54%      42%             63%          11,997    26%    30%            43%
 Closed1       5 years     34,511     43%      49%             63%         270,396    10%    25%            28%
 Closed2       6 years     40,236     45%      49%             64%         390,075    9%     24%            27%



typically because of a review comment made on another file or outside the reviewing platform. If
considering only patches that were commented on, those cases would thus be missed, hence the
importance of considering hot-spot prediction. The labels’ definitions can be found in Table 3. This
labeling is done at a file-level granularity, following Hong et al.’s approach [31].

4.2    Datasets
In this paper, we use three open source datasets and two closed source datasets provided by our
industrial partner (different from the dataset used in the user study). The open source datasets we
consider are those of Hong et al. [31], i.e., Qt Base (Base), Openstack Ironic (Ironic), Openstack Nova
(Nova), which were used for commented and revisioned prediction tasks [31, 55]. We then used
Gerrit’s API to gather extra information about the changed files, i.e., author id, reviewer ids, and
full file diff (since their replication package only has the added lines), needed for our embeddings.
   The closed-source datasets were provided by our industrial partner, and contain reviews of two
projects developed over the course of 5-6 years that used a traditional review process. Though we
are not able to share these datasets, we are interested in showing those results as the datasets are
much larger, go over longer periods and contain a denser review activity, as shown in Table 4.
   More information on the datasets can be found in Table 4, which only considers the initial
commit of each patch and its related changed files. In the context of review activity prediction,
we make predictions on the initial commits only. Although the follow-up commits/revisions are
necessary in our dataset for labeling, they are not part of the training or test datasets. The frequency
of the three labels at the file and patch levels shows that open-source projects tend to have smaller
patches in terms of changed files as they have on average 3-4 times more changed files than patches.
Closed-source datasets, on the other hand, have 9-10 times more changed files than patches, thus
larger patches. Also, as the patches are larger, closed-source datasets also report slightly lower
review comment ratio (9-10% compared to 13-26% for open-source). For all datasets, we observe
that the granularity of file changes compared to patches makes the labels more imbalanced.

Proc. ACM Softw. Eng., Vol. 1, No. FSE, Article 99. Publication date: July 2024.
An Empirical Study on Code Review Activity Prediction and Its Impact in Practice                                                 99:9

                                                                                                       Timeline
                                    Timeline
                                                                                                    (6month-splits)


                                  Train           Valid Test                                Train   Valid Test
              Open-source        (80%)            10% 10%                   Closed-source     1      1     1
                                                                                                      Train Valid Test
                                                                                                         2     2   2
                                                                                                                      ...

                              Fig. 1. Data split for open- and closed-source datasets.


                File change
                Code (text)                                      Embedded
                                  Text embedding
                lines added                                        add
                                     approach
                                                                                        Combination:
                Code (text)                                      Embedded
                                  (BoW or LLM)                                                                 Final embedding
              lines removed                                       remove               Concatenation of
                                                                                     targeted embeddings
                   Meta-           Review process              Review process
                information      feature embedding                features




Fig. 2. Embedding approach. The file change is composed of lines added, lines removed and meta-information
about the submission (e.g., timestamp, author and reviewer ids, patch id). The combination will concatenate
the targeted embeddings, i.e., the text embedding, features, or both. The final embedding for each file is 1D.


4.3   Data splitting
As shown in Table 4, the open- and closed-source datasets have different sizes, as the open-source
datasets have 4k to 18k changed files, whereas the closed-source datasets have 270k to 390k. Since
we are considering, among others, Bag-of-Words embedding approaches, training on the full closed-
source datasets is not feasible, as the vocabulary of the corpora is too large to maintain. For this
reason, we need different data-splitting approaches for both sources of data. However, both splitting
approaches respect the data’s timeline: changed files present in the test have to be posterior in time
to all the changed files in the training set in order not to contaminate the training set, same as for
the validation set. Both splitting approaches are shown in Figure 1.
   In the case of the open-source datasets, we split each dataset along its timeline into a training set
validation set and test set of size 80%-10%-10% respectively, similarly to Hong et al.’s approach [31].
   In the case of the closed-source datasets, we split each dataset into 6-month periods. Closed1 has
10 such periods and Closed2 has 12. From preliminary analysis, we observed that a 6-month period
size still allows us to apply the Bag-of-Words approach while keeping a reasonable vocabulary size.
Then, we apply a sliding window where we train on a period and validating on the first half of
the following period and test the second half. Each training yields an individual model, giving 9
trained models for the Closed1 dataset and 11 for Closed2.

4.4   Embeddings
In the context of this paper, we consider two types of text embeddings, i.e., Bag-of-Words (BoW)
and Large-Language Model (LLM) encoding, and several review process feature sets.
   Figure 2 illustrates the embedding process. For each changed file, we generate all the embeddings,
both text and feature-based. At the combination stage, we choose which embeddings to consider,
text, feature-based or both. In the case of text embeddings, we have the choice between only
considering added lines or also removed lines. In the latter case, added and removed lines are still
embedded separately and concatenated at the combination stage. For RQ1, we only consider the

                                               Proc. ACM Softw. Eng., Vol. 1, No. FSE, Article 99. Publication date: July 2024.
99:10                                                                   Doriane Olewicki, Sarra Habchi, and Bram Adams


text embeddings ("embedded add" and "embedded remove"), and we don’t take into account any
review process features. RQ2 considers only the review process features, but the specific features
selected depend on the chosen feature setup. For RQ3, both text embeddings and review process
features are considered together and combined using a concatenation approach. In each case, the
final embedding of a file is a one-dimensional vector.
4.4.1 Bag-of-Words. The BoW approach represents each input as a vector of word frequency where
each column represents a word in the corpus vocabulary and the value in the vector at that column
indicates the number of occurrences of the word in the input. Considering code changes as input,
we have to clean the input in this context, since the source code of changes have many symbols
that are not text. We follow the state-of-the-art’s approach [31] for code pre-processing, which only
considers alphanumeric terms. Numbers are also replaced by a token "<NUMBER>". Still following
this approach, we do not perform any stemming, lowercase or lemmatization transformation as
such approaches are valuable for natural languages used by humans but do not make sense in the
case of code. Regarding the BoW computation itself, we use the Countvectorize function of the
Scikit-Learn Python library [2]. The Countvectorize function is trained on the training set, then
is applied to the test set for each data split. Words that appear in the test set but not in the training
set will thus not be included in the bag of words. To reduce the vocabulary size, we remove words
that appear only in one single changed files in the corpus as well as words that are too common
(i.e., appear in more than 50% of the changed file corpus).
4.4.2 Large-Language Model encoding. To work with LLM models, the Hugging Face community
provides many pretrained models available to use as-is [3]. We selected Bloom from Big Science,
an LLM trained on many programming languages (e.g., Java, C++, Python), who’s direct use is text
generation and exploring charateristics of language [11]. The advantage of Bloom is that it provides
a condensed version of the model that still provides good results for NLP tasks. We do use big
science/bloom-560m in the context of this paper, which is about 4 GB compared to the normal
version of Bloom, which is about 375 GB. Also, it counts more than 1.4M downloads in the month
of August 2023, making it the most popular LLM pre-trained on programming languages at the
time of our empirical study. To obtain the encoding, we used SentenceTransformer, a Hugging
Face Python library [5]. For the encoding step, we do not clean the code, as Bloom is trained on
raw code.
4.4.3 Review process features. software tasks such as risk prediction [40, 49] and bug prediction [25,
34] have been shown to use software process features for their training and getting respectable
performance. Based on their example and inspired by their features, we defined review process
features following two main categories: size-related features and historical features.
   The count features refer to metrics considering the size of the changed file targeted by the
prediction, as well as contextual features regarding the size of the changed files’ patch. Historical
features refer to the past activities that happened surrounding the targeted file, but also the
experience of the code’s author and of the patch’s reviewers known at the time of the prediction.
The definitions of our features can be found in Table 5. Those features are generated on each
individual dataset, based on the timestamps of the patch submission.

4.5     Classification
Similar to Hong et al. [31], we considered Random Forest (RF), Naive Bayes (NB), Nearest Neighbors,
Logistic Regression, Decision Trees, and off-the-shelf LLMs (bloom560m) to classify the changed
files as "revised", "commented" and/or "hot-spots" as three separated tasks. From preliminary
analysis on those classifiers, we narrowed down the list to Random Forest and Naive Bayes, as they

Proc. ACM Softw. Eng., Vol. 1, No. FSE, Article 99. Publication date: July 2024.
An Empirical Study on Code Review Activity Prediction and Its Impact in Practice                                               99:11


Table 5. Description of review process features generated at the file-level granularity. <LAB> refers to the
different labels we consider.

                                Feature name                 Description
                      1)        c_add                        # lines added in the file.
                      2)        c_rem                        # lines removed in the file.
                      3)        c_unchanged                  # lines unchanged shown in the file. For Gerrit, at most 10
                                                             lines of context are shown above and under changed lines as
                                                             context. In the tool used by our industrial collaborators, the
 Count




                                                             context is at most 5 lines.
                      4)        c_add_rev                    # lines added in the patch of the file.
                      5)        c_rem_rev                    # lines removed in the patch of the file.
                      6)        c_unchanged_rev              # lines unchanged in the patch of the file.
                                                               𝑐_𝑎𝑑𝑑
                      7)        r_add_rev                    𝑐_𝑎𝑑𝑑_𝑟𝑒𝑣
                                                               𝑐_𝑟𝑒𝑚
                      8)        r_rem_rev                    𝑐_𝑟𝑒𝑚_𝑟𝑒𝑣
                                                               𝑐_𝑢𝑛𝑐ℎ𝑎𝑛𝑔𝑒𝑑
                      9)        r_unchanged_rev              𝑐_𝑢𝑛𝑐ℎ𝑎𝑛𝑔𝑒𝑑_𝑟𝑒𝑣
                      10)       file_exp                     # past and current patches that included changes to this file
                                                             (min = 1).
 File’s history




                      11)       dir_exp                      # past and current patches that included changes to this file’s
                                                             directory (min = 1).
                      12- 14)   r_<LAB>_file                 File’s average <LAB> ratio before the current patch (default: 0,
                                                             value between 0 and 1).
                      15- 17)   r_<LAB>_dir                  The directory of the file’s average <LAB> ratio before the
                                                             current patch (default: 0, value between 0 and 1).
                      18)       auth_exp                     # past and current patches submitted by the author (min = 1).
                      19)       authfile_exp                 # past and current patches in which the current file was sub-
                                                             mitted by the author(min = 1).
 Author’s history




                      20)       authdir_exp                  # past and current patches in which the current file’s directory
                                                             was submitted by the author (min = 1).
                      21- 23)   r_<LAB>_author               Author’s average <LAB> ratio before the current patch (default:
                                                             0, value between 0 and 1).
                      24- 26)   r_<LAB>_authfile             Author’s average <LAB> ratio on the current file before the
                                                             current patch (default: 0, value between 0 and 1).
                      27- 29)   r_<LAB>_authdir              Author’s average <LAB> ratio on the current file’s directory
                                                             before the current patch (default: 0, value between 0 and 1).
                      30)       max_reviewers_exp            Maximum # past and current patches reviewed by one of the
 Reviewers’ history




                                                             reviewers out of all this patch’s reviewers (min = 1).
                      31)       mean_reviewers_exp           Average # past and current patches reviewed by one of the
                                                             reviewers out of all this patch’s reviewers (min = 1).
                      32- 34)   r_<LAB>_max_ reviewers       Maximum Reviewers’s <LAB> rate before the current patch
                                                             (default: 0, value between 0 and 1).
                      35- 37)   r_<LAB>_mean_ reviewers      Average Reviewers’s <LAB> rate before the current patch (de-
                                                             fault: 0, value between 0 and 1).


performed better in terms of AUC and F1-score for our task, regardless of the used embeddings.
This confirmed Hong et al.’s observation [31] that Random Forest gives the best AUC for their
task, followed in most cases by Naive Bayes. During preliminary analysis, we used the off-the-shelf
Bloom LLM classifier, yet this did not perform as well as the considered ML models. As all the
datasets are imbalanced considering the changed file granularity, we consider the SMOTE data
sampling approach during training [15, 57]. Models are trained on a per-project basis.

                                                     Proc. ACM Softw. Eng., Vol. 1, No. FSE, Article 99. Publication date: July 2024.
99:12                                                                   Doriane Olewicki, Sarra Habchi, and Bram Adams


   In the end, we have thus two different models (RF and NB) with and without the SMOTE sampling
approach (models with SMOTE will be referred to as RFs and NBs), making 4 options for model
selection. Each model is trained on a specific label (i.e., commented, revised or hot-spot), thus
needing 12 trained models in total for each dataset-split and each setup of embeddings.

4.6     Evaluation
We empirically evaluate the models for the three tasks using three open-source and two closed-
source datasets. To do the evaluation, we report AUC, as Hong et al. [31]. We also report metrics used
                                                                                           √
for imbalanced labeled datasets: F1-score (F1 = 𝑝𝑟𝑒 −1 2+𝑟𝑒𝑐 −1 ) and Geometric Mean (GM = 𝑝𝑟𝑒 · 𝑟𝑒𝑐),
which are computed based on the precision (pre = 𝑇 𝑃𝑇+𝐹    𝑃                          𝑇𝑃
                                                             𝑃 ) and recall (rec = 𝑇 𝑃 +𝐹 𝑁 ). Those metrics
need a threshold to define when the prediction is considered as true or false. We choose a threshold
that maximizes the F1-score on the validation sets, as it captures best imbalance of the datasets [14].
   In Machine Learning based approaches, it is best to train and test models several times to verify
the robustness to randomness in the approaches or data splits. For the closed-source datasets,
we mentioned in Section 4.3 how the dataset is split into several periods and thus runs. For the
open-source datasets, as they are smaller than the closed-source datasets, only one data split is
done, following the process explained in Section 4.3. However, each embedding setup and model is
run 5 times, with a different seed in each iteration. That seed is used in the model (e.g., random
forest takes a random seed) and in the SMOTE sampling when used.
   For all the datasets, out of the different models (i.e., RF, RFs, NB, and NBs), we report the model
with the highest median F1-score on the validation set, as that is the metric we want to optimize. The
results shown in the tables are the metrics for the run with median F1-score for a given embedding
setup and its best model.

4.7     Statistical tests
As mentioned in the previous section, we run each setup at least 5 times per dataset for each label
and the median results are shown in the different tables. Hence, we need to perform statistical tests
to validate whether or not the differences observed are significantly different.
   Since we have a limited number of runs, we decided to group the runs into sub-categories of
datasets: open-source datasets (i.e., Base, Ironic and Nova), closed-source datasets (i.e., Closed 1
and 2) and all datasets. When comparing two setups for a given label, we take all the runs of that
setup for all the datasets in the subcategory. We apply a Wilcoxon paired test [16] with 𝛼-value =
.01. We calculate the Cliff’s Delta effect to evaluate the impact of the significant differences [38].
   As an example, let us consider the comparison of two setups for the one label and the sub-category
open-source datasets. Each dataset in that case has 5 runs of the best model, i.e., runs B1-5 for
Base, I1-5 for Ironic and N1-5 for Nova. For each setup, we align the runs into a vector yielding one
vector by setup of the form [𝐵1 − 𝐵5 𝐼 1 − 𝐼 5 𝑁 1 − 𝑁 5], in this case of length 15. Then, we perform
the pairwise test between both vectors where a p-value inferior to .01 is reported as significantly
different, in which case we also compute the effect size on the same vectors.

5     RQ1: WHICH TEXT EMBEDDINGS OF CODE DIFFS PERFORM BEST FOR REVIEW
      ACTIVITY PREDICTION?
5.1     Motivation
In their paper, Hong et al. explore the use of the Bag-of-Words (BoW) to embed code changes [31].
Contrary to previous work using full-code changes to perform prediction [58], they only consider
added lines of a code change. This choice has the advantage of not having removed or unchanged

Proc. ACM Softw. Eng., Vol. 1, No. FSE, Article 99. Publication date: July 2024.
An Empirical Study on Code Review Activity Prediction and Its Impact in Practice                                   99:13


lines contaminating the text embedding, as those lines could appear as noise in the training.
However, the prediction will thus have less context since only the added lines are considered.
   Furthermore, the BoW approach, though easy to implement and easily explainable, presents
several disadvantages. First, this approach does not scale with large datasets as the size of the
vocabulary increases exponentially with the corpus size. Secondly, BoW does not capture the
essence of source code, as the order of words does not impact the embedding. It captures the
number of occurrences of words and thus the size of the code as well.
   On the other hand, LLM pre-trained encoders are made to represent input data in a representative
way, as to capture the underlying structure and semantics of the code. Also, the input encoding
is a fixed-size embedding. However, the difficulty with these approaches is that models are more
difficult to explain based on their feature importance, as the abstraction of the original input into
the encoded output is not understandable to humans.

5.2   Approach
In RQ1, we explore how text embeddings impact the review activity predictions at file-level.
Following the findings of Hong et al. [31], we will explore both (1) keeping only the added lines of
a code change and (2) consider embedding removed lines in addition to the add lines. Among the
different variations of each text embedding, we will identify the best embedding for a given dataset
and label as "Best text" embedding.
   Table 6 shows the results of both considered embeddings, BoW and LLM encoding, with the
variations considering only added lines (+) or both added lines and removed lines (+/-). We per-
formed a statistical pairwise test using Wilcoxon Test, comparing "BoW +" embedding to each
text embedding for each sub-category of datasets (i.e., open-source, closed-source, or both), as
mentioned in Section 4.7.

5.3   Results
Compared to "BoW +", no specific text embeddings report significant differences in F1-
score across all datasets, for any labels (p-value = .012 to .441). The only case that returned
significant improvement with small effect size is "LLM +/-" compared to "BoW +" for the label "hot-
spot" (p-value = .001), with an improvement of up to +4%. Also, we notice a significant improvement
with small effect regarding AUC with embedding "BoW +/-" for all datasets on labels "commented"
and "revised" (p-value = .0).
   However, when comparing the "Best text" embedding with the "BoW +", the F1-score is
found to be significantly better with small effect size for labels "revised" (p-value = .007)
and "hot-spot" (p-value = .007). Out of those 10 cases (5 datasets × 2 labels), 8/10 cases show
higher F1-score (from +2 to +4%), 1/10 case show no effect and one got lower results (-1%). The
label "commented" does not perform significantly better (p-value = .021). It at least matches in 3/5
datasets (up to +2%) and is lower in two cases (-1%). Also, out of the 15 cases, 8/15 cases got higher
F1-score results than the baseline for "LLM +/-", 10/15 cases for "LLM +" and 6/15 for "BoW +/-".
   We thus conclude that in general, none of the text embedding stands out in all cases, although in
practice, choosing the right variations improves F1-score in 10/15 cases. The scalability of BoW
still stands, as the vocabulary quickly explodes as the corpus increases in size.
   For BoW, we found that 95-99% of the feature importance is focused on 1-5% of top
features, compared to 50% of feature importance focused on 20-40% of top features for the
LLM embedding. We apply a feature importance analysis using Python’s feature_importances_,
which measures the percentage of feature importance of each individual feature. Comparison of
the "BoW +" and "LLM +" embeddings shows that due to the very large size of the embedding
outputs of BoW, the classifier will only focus on a low number of features, with the majority of

                                         Proc. ACM Softw. Eng., Vol. 1, No. FSE, Article 99. Publication date: July 2024.
99:14                                                                   Doriane Olewicki, Sarra Habchi, and Bram Adams


Table 6. Results for RQ1: text embeddings for the code review activity prediction task at file-level. The results
shown are returned for the best model ("mod") across each variation of text embedding. Blue cells indicate
the maximum values for each metric per dataset and per label.

             Text               Commented                        Revised                         Hot-spot
            Embed      auc f1    gm pre rec mod        auc f1    gm pre rec mod         auc f1   gm pre rec mod
            BoW +      67 38     63 27 63 RF           67 42     59 40 44 RFs           66 49    62 42 59 RFs
            BoW +/-    68 40     64 30 58 RFs          67 44     62 37 55 RFs           67 50    62 41 63 RFs
 Base




            LLM +      69 39     65 28 69 RFs          68 46     62 42 51 RFs           68 51    64 44 60 RFs
            LLM +/-    69 40     65 28 69 RFs          68 46     63 39 52 RFs           69 52    63 44 61 RFs
            BoW +      77 46     67 39 53 RFs          70 53     66 41 81 RFs           71 57    63 45 82 RF
 Ironic




            BoW +/-    78 45     69 36 62 RFs          69 50     64 42 68 RFs           71 57    64 47 76 RF
            LLM +      78 45     66 39 52 RFs          67 52     63 38 75 RFs           70 58    65 47 76 RFs
            LLM +/-    78 40     61 40 45 RFs          67 51     62 37 77 RFs           70 58    66 48 76 RFs
            BoW +      75 54     67 56 52 RFs          72 48     66 37 69 RFs           72 57    46 42 91 RFs
 Nova




            BoW +/-    75 55     68 58 53 RFs          73 50     67 41 67 RFs           72 57    48 42 90 RFs
            LLM +      78 55     67 57 51 RFs          75 50     68 40 69 RFs           76 57    35 40 98 RF
            LLM +/-    78 53     66 59 48 RFs          75 51     67 41 73 RFs           76 57    37 41 97 RFs
            BoW +      74 38     62 31 48 RFs          70 46     65 37 60 RFs           67 51    63 41 67 RFs
 Closed1




            BoW +/-    74 36     65 28 50 RFs          71 44     64 37 57 RFs           68 51    61 40 73 RFs
            LLM +      75 37     62 29 53 RFs          72 47     66 36 70 RFs           65 55    55 42 79 RF
            LLM +/-    74 37     63 27 54 RFs          72 45     64 38 63 RFs           69 53    63 41 68 RFs
            BoW +      72 32     60 26 43 RFs          70 39     63 34 49 RFs           67 48    61 36 77 RFs
 Closed2




            BoW +/-    75 32     64 23 50 RFs          71 40     65 32 60 RFs           67 47    63 36 72 RFs
            LLM +      72 32     62 23 49 RFs          70 41     61 30 61 RFs           66 49    58 40 69 RFs
            LLM +/-    77 32     58 24 42 RFs          73 40     65 28 66 RFs           72 51    65 40 72 RFs


stored features not playing an important role in the prediction. More details on feature importance
can be found in the replication package [4].
 RQ1: Compared to Bag-of-Words applied only on added lines, adding the removed
 lines and/or using the Large Language Model embedding significantly improved the
 F1-score for labels "revised" (up to +3%) and "hot-spot" (up to +5%) at file-level. The
 label "commented" has no significant improvement using the new text embeddings.

6          RQ2: WHICH REVIEW PROCESS FEATURES PERFORM BEST FOR REVIEW
           ACTIVITY PREDICTION?
6.1         Motivation
The state-of-the-art approach only considers two basic software process features, i.e., number of
lines add and removed, which were able to improve the performance of commented and revised
prediction tasks [31]. We thus want to evaluate how review process features in general, such as
size-related features, but also features based on the history of the file, the author and the reviewers,
perform compared to text embeddings, inspired by other software processes that have used similar
features in the past [34, 49].

6.2         Approach
In Table 7 we report the results of different combinations of features:
           • "Add/Rem": this set of features refers to the features used by Hong et al. in their approach [31],
             i.e., "c_add" and "c_rem" in Table 5.

Proc. ACM Softw. Eng., Vol. 1, No. FSE, Article 99. Publication date: July 2024.
An Empirical Study on Code Review Activity Prediction and Its Impact in Practice                                     99:15


Table 7. Results for RQ2: software review process features embeddings on the code review activity prediction
tasks at file-level. The results are returned for the best model ("mod") for each setting of text embedding. Blue
cells indicate the maximum values for each metric per dataset and per label.

               Text               Commented                      Revised                            Hot-spot
             Embed       auc f1    gm pre rec mod      auc f1    gm pre rec mod           auc f1    gm pre rec mod
            Best text    68 40     64 30 58 RFs        68 46     63 39 52 RFs             69 52     63 44 61 RFs
            Add/Rem      59 33     58 25 50 RF         65 44     61 34 66 RF              64 50     55 36 81 RF
 Base




            Count        65 36     59 24 73 RF         65 42     60 38 49 RF              66 50     58 37 78 RFs
            Hist         62 33     39 20 93 RFs        63 43     59 32 70 RF              60 47     25 31 97 RF
            All          73 40     65 28 74 RFs        74 50     65 49 51 RFs             73 54     66 45 70 RFs
            Best text    77 46     67 39 53 RFs        70 53     66 41 81 RFs             70 58     65 47 76 RFs
            Add/Rem      53 30     53 20 68 RF         61 45     43 31 90 RFs             62 51     37 36 92 RFs
 Ironic




            Count        65 36     62 27 55 RF         61 44     58 38 49 RFs             63 52     56 40 72 RFs
            Hist         57 30     49 20 71 RFs        70 53     65 40 84 RFs             67 55     61 44 78 RFs
            All          67 36     62 25 67 RF         68 51     65 43 64 RFs             69 56     62 45 80 RFs
            Best text    75 55     68 58 53 RFs        75 51     67 41 73 RFs             76 57     37 41 97 RFs
            Add/Rem      63 40     39 26 88 RF         65 45     63 36 64 RFs             67 56     34 40 95 RFs
 Nova




            Count        68 47     62 34 78 RFs        72 48     65 35 73 RF              68 58     54 44 86 RF
            Hist         60 30     47 32 28 RFs        56 38     56 29 57 RF              58 41     53 49 36 RFs
            All          70 40     17 25 100 RFs       69 47     62 45 45 RFs             67 55     10 38 100 RF
            Best text    74 38     62 31 48 RFs        72 47     66 36 70 RFs             65 55     55 42 79 RF
            Add/Rem      63 24     59 19 56 RF         67 39     60 29 64 RF              60 48     49 36 73 RF
 Closed1




            Count        74 36     64 28 50 RFs        75 47     68 35 64 RF              68 55     60 40 82 RF
            Hist         59 25     53 16 83 RFs        58 38     47 24 83 RF              59 47     42 32 83 RF
            All          77 37     66 32 52 RF         75 48     69 35 67 RFs             69 56     64 43 78 RFs
            Best text    77 32     58 24 42 RFs        70 41     61 30 61 RFs             72 51     65 40 72 RFs
            #Add/Rem     67 24     60 17 46 RF         65 35     61 23 64 RF              59 45     45 29 84 RFs
 Closed2




            Count        79 34     67 26 52 RF         72 42     66 32 62 RFs             68 49     63 36 77 RFs
            Hist         59 18     52 11 60 RFs        63 34     55 22 79 RF              61 45     45 32 87 RF
            All          81 37     69 29 56 RF         76 45     68 35 64 RFs             74 53     67 41 76 RFs


           • "Count": described in the "Count" section of Table 5.
           • "Hist": described in the File’s , Author’s and Reviewers’ history sections of Table 5.
           • "All feat": all the aforementioned review process features, thus all features in Table 5.
   In RQ2, we only consider review process features, excluding any text embedding, as this is the
topic of RQ3. However, we will also report in the table the best results of text embedding from RQ1
as "Best text", per dataset and predicted label in order to see how feature-based performs compared
to text embeddings, which (theoretically) have more specific information about the file’s content.
Again we will define a best setup "Best feat" as being the local best feature-based embedding for
each dataset and label. We also applied statistical tests to compare the "Best text" embedding with
the feature-based embedding.

6.3         Results
For the open-source datasets, the "Best feat" embedding reports no significant difference
regarding the F1-score for labels "revised" and "hot-spots" (p-value = .804 and .389), thus
managing to perform as well as the (supposedly richer) text embeddings. We can note
that for 3/6 cases, at least one of the feature-based approaches improves F1-score compared to
"Best text" (up to +4% F1-score). Out of the 6 cases, "All feat" reports better F1-score than the "Best

                                           Proc. ACM Softw. Eng., Vol. 1, No. FSE, Article 99. Publication date: July 2024.
99:16                                                                   Doriane Olewicki, Sarra Habchi, and Bram Adams


text" in 2/6 cases and "Count" reports a better F1-score in 1/6 cases. The F1-scores for the label
"commented" are significantly lower with medium effect (p-value = .007). In 4 out of 9 open-source
cases, the "Best text" embedding performs better than the feature-based embeddings (+2 to +12%
F1-score). This is expected, as the text embedding has more specific information than the high-level
information of the feature-based embeddings.
   For the closed-source datasets, the "Count" embedding is not significantly different
from the "best text" embedding for any label with respect to F1 score (p-value = .355 to
.966). Statistically, the text embedding and the "Count" perform similarly though having access to
different types of information, the "Count" approach being less computationally expensive as the
embedding size is much smaller. In practice, we observe that in those 6 cases (2 datasets × 3 labels),
"Count" reports at least as well in F1-score to "best text" in 4/6 cases (up to +2%) and lower in the
last 2 cases (up to -3%).
   Similarly, for the closed-source datasets, "All feat" does not report significantly different
F1-score for any label compared to "best text" (p-value = .034 to .393). It reports significantly
different AUC for labels "revised" (p-value = .0) and "hot-spot" (p-value = .003) with large effect in
both cases. We observe that "All feat" gets a better F1-score in 5/6 cases ( +1 to +5%), -1% in the
last case, and it reports better AUC in all 6 cases (+2 to +6%). Furthermore, "All feat" compared to
"Count" reports significantly better F1-score with small effect regarding the label "commented"
(p-value = .0) and not significantly different for the labels "revised" (p-value = .014) and "hot-spot"
(p-value = .032). However, "All feat" improves F1-score compared to "Count" in all 6 cases, with +1
to +4%. In practice, adding the history-based features does improve F1-score and performs better
than "Best text".
   Through these results, we observe that in the case of open-source datasets, the review process
feature-based approach does not consistently perform as well as the "Best text" embedding, though
the F1-score reported by the best feature embeddings per dataset and label improved performance in
4/9 cases (up to +12%). Regarding closed-source datasets, the "All feat" embedding performs as well
as the "Best text" embedding, while reducing the computational effort of model training thanks to
the reduced dimensionality. Looking at feature importance per feature category of Table 5, we found
that all datasets benefit most from the "Add/Rem" and "Count" categories, whose features each
represent 2 to 13% of the overall feature importance. This indicates that those features regarding
the size of changed files have the most value, including also the contextual features regarding the
full patch size. More details on feature importance can be found in the replication package [4].
 RQ2: In the closed-source projects, considering all review process features performs
 as good as the best text embeddings at file-level in terms of F1-score, while reducing
 the computational effort as the embedding is of lower dimensionality. For open-source
 datasets, the best feature embedding per dataset and label matches the F1-score of text
 embeddings, although no specific feature-based embedding is consistently as good. All
 datasets benefit the most from size-based features.

7     RQ3: HOW DOES THE COMBINATION OF REVIEW PROCESS FEATURES WITH
      TEXT EMBEDDINGS PERFORM FOR REVIEW ACTIVITY PREDICTION?
7.1     Motivation
Hong et al. propose in their paper a review activity prediction approach using a BoW embedding
in addition to features measuring the number of lines added and removed to a file [30]. In RQ1 and
RQ2, we explored how text embeddings and review process feature embeddings perform separately
on the three tasks and what they capture about the code submission. In this question, we combine
both types of embeddings to find the best embedding, compared to the state-of-the-art.

Proc. ACM Softw. Eng., Vol. 1, No. FSE, Article 99. Publication date: July 2024.
An Empirical Study on Code Review Activity Prediction and Its Impact in Practice                                   99:17


7.2   Approach
We combine each text embedding with each review process feature embedding presented in the
previous RQs. The results are shown in Table 8. Each project is presented with three comparisons:
the baseline (state-of-the-art [31], i.e., BoW embedding with "Add/Rem" features), "Best text" (from
RQ1), and "Best feat" (from RQ2). We report two main combinations: first, "Heavy combo" which
refers to our most "heaviest" embedding compared to the baseline, i.e., the one considering the
"LLM +/-" text embedding and "All feat" feature-based embedding. Then, we also report "Best
combo", which reports the combination with the best F1-score per dataset and label. The lines
directly following "Best combo" report the specific combination chosen (i.e., the name of the text
and review process feature embeddings used).


7.3   Results
For closed-source datasets, "Heavy combo" improves significantly the F1-score compared to
the baseline regarding labels "revised" (p-value = .002 with medium effect) and "hot-spots"
(p-value = .004 with large effect). Out of those 4 cases (2 datasets × 2 labels), the improvement
on F1-score is +3 to +6%. In the case of the label "commented", "Heavy combo" performs better
for Closed2 (+4%) and lower for Closed1 (-3%). In all 6 cases, the AUC is improved (+3 to +8%).
Furthermore, the "Heavy combo" is also the "Best combo" in the case of the label "revised".
   For open-source datasets, "Heavy combo" is not significantly different than the baseline
regarding F1-score for any label (p-value = .048 to .421). In practice, it improves F1-score in
5/9 cases (+1 to +6 %) and AUC in 7/9 cases (+1 to +5%), but not significantly.
   For all datasets, "Best combo" performs +1 to +9% better regarding F1-score than the
baseline, with medium effect for labels "commented" and "revised" (p-value = .0) and
large effect for large "hot-spot" (p-value = .0). "Best feat" significantly improves the F1-score
for labels "revised" (p-value = .0 medium effect) and "hot-spot" (p-value = .004 small effect), with
improvement up to +8% for "revised" and +6% for "hot-spot" compared to the baseline.
   Table 8 shows the different embedding choices for the best combinations of text-embedding and
feature embedding regarding F1-score. We observe that out of the 15 cases, the best setup chosen
involved BoW in 6/15 cases and LLM in the other 9. The text embedding including both added and
removed lines was chosen in 9/15 cases and only the added lines in 6/15 cases. Overall, the classic
text embedding "BoW +" was chosen only twice. It should also be noted that in 3/15 cases, the "Best
feat" embedding got the best results, which indicates that in those cases, combining features with
the text embedding did not even improve performance, making the lower-dimensionality review
process feature-only approach the most performant.
   Regarding the feature embedding choice for "Best Combo", "Add/Rem", the simpler embedding,
was never chosen, "Count" was chosen 3/15 times, "Hist" was chosen 4/15 times, and "All feat" was
chosen 8/15, making the latter the most popular feature-embedding.
   Though the "Heavy combo" embedding is not unanimous, as it improved F1-score for 10/15
cases, the new review process features and text embeddings variations that we consider are worth
exploring as their best combination ("Best combo") improves F1-score in all cases.
 RQ3: The Best combination of embeddings improves significantly the F1-score (+1 to
 +9%) for all datasets and labels at file-level. Though combining LLM embeddings and
 all process features is the most common best combination, there is no consensus on
 the best combination. The heavy combination reports significantly higher F1-score for
 closed-source datasets regarding the labels "revised" and "hot-spots", and in practice
 improves the F1-score in 10 out of 15 cases across all datasets.


                                         Proc. ACM Softw. Eng., Vol. 1, No. FSE, Article 99. Publication date: July 2024.
99:18                                                                   Doriane Olewicki, Sarra Habchi, and Bram Adams


Table 8. Results for RQ3: combining the text embeddings with software meta-features embeddings for the
code review activity prediction task at file-level. The results are returned for the best model ("mod") for each
setting of text embedding. Blue cells indicate the maximum values for each metric per dataset and per label.

               Text            Commented                          Revised                        Hot-spot
              Embed      auc f1 gm pre rec mod            auc f1 gm pre rec mod          auc f1  gm pre rec mod
           Baseline      68 39 62 29 52 RFs               67 42 59 40 42 RFs             66 50   62 41 65 RFs
           Best text     68 40 64 30 58 RFs               68 46 63 39 52 RFs             69 52   63 44 61 RFs
           Best feat     73 40 65 28 74 RFs               74 50 65 49 51 RFs             73 54   66 45 70 RFs
 Base




           Heavy combo   71 40 64 28 66 RFs               70 47 64 40 59 RFs             70 52   61 39 78 RFs
           Best combo    73 41 65 29 71 RFs               70 47 64 40 59 RFs             71 53   62 40 76 RFs
                               BoW +/- & All                    LLM +/- & All                   LLM + & All
           Baseline      79 46 69 37 58 RFs               71 51 65 41 69 RFs             72   57 65 47 74 RF
           Best text     77 46 67 39 53 RFs               70 53 66 41 81 RFs             70   58 65 47 76 RFs
 Ironic




           Best feat     65 36 62 27 55 RF                70 53 65 40 84 RFs             69   56 62 45 80 RFs
           Heavy combo   79 44 63 41 47 RFs               67 48 60 36 74 RF              73   58 67 53 67 RFs
           Best combo    78 47 70 38 64 RFs               75 54 67 51 54 RFs             73   60 69 52 70 RFs
                              LLM + & Count                    BoW +/- & Hist                  LLM +/- & Hist
           Baseline      77 56 68 60 52 RFs               71 47 65 38 62 RFs             73   57 49 42 88 RFs
           Best text     75 55 68 58 53 RFs               75 51 67 41 73 RFs             76   57 37 41 97 RFs
 Nova




           Best feat     68 47 62 34 78 RFs               72 48 65 35 73 RF              68   58 54 44 86 RF
           Heavy combo   78 46 56 31 93 RF                76 53 69 46 64 RFs             75   56 28 39 99 RF
           Best combo    82 61 73 59 63 RFs               76 53 69 46 64 RFs             75   62 69 63 63 RFs
                               BoW + & Hist                     LLM +/- & All                  BoW +/- & Hist
           Baseline      73 38 63 32 49 RFs               71 45 63 37 66 RFs             67   50 61 39 74 RFs
           Best text     74 38 62 31 48 RFs               72 47 66 36 70 RFs             65   55 55 42 79 RF
 Closed1




           Best feat     77 37 66 32 52 RF                75 48 69 35 67 RFs             69   56 64 43 78 RFs
           Heavy combo   78 35 66 26 56 RFs               75 50 68 40 74 RFs             70   53 64 43 70 RFs
           Best combo    79 41 67 32 52 RFs               75 50 68 40 74 RFs             70   59 64 45 80 RFs
                             BoW +/- & Count                    LLM +/- & All                   LLM + & All
           Baseline      73 33 59 27 38 RFs               70 41 63 37 56 RFs             66   48 61 36 74 RF
           Best text     77 32 58 24 42 RFs               70 41 61 30 61 RFs             72   51 65 40 72 RFs
 Closed2




           Best feat     81 37 69 29 56 RF                76 45 68 35 64 RFs             74   53 67 41 76 RFs
           Heavy combo   81 37 67 29 55 RFs               76 45 68 35 64 RFs             73   54 65 41 78 RFs
           Best combo    81 40 68 33 54 RFs               76 45 68 35 64 RFs             75   54 67 42 79 RFs
                              BoW + & Count                     LLM +/- & All                   LLM + & All



8          DISCUSSION
8.1         Hot-spot detection for file re-ordering
To evaluate the impact of hot-spot prediction-based file ordering (instead of a wizard-of-oz setting,
using the ground truth), we took patches with at least 2 changed files and at least one of the files
labeled as hot-spot, then made model predictions using RQ3’s heavy combination. We ordered
each patch’s changed files based on their predicted probability of hot-spotness. We compute the
average Recall@k (= 𝑇 𝑃𝑇+𝐹𝑃 𝑁 ) across patches, where 𝑇 𝑃 are the true positive cases in the top 𝑘, and
(𝑇 𝑃 + 𝐹 𝑁 ) is the total number of hot-spots (maxed at 𝑘). k is chosen depending on the size of the
patch (𝑠𝑖𝑧𝑒), so Recall@50% means k = 𝑠𝑖𝑧𝑒                                   𝑠𝑖𝑧𝑒
                                           2 and Recall@25% means k = 4 . Table 9 compares the
recall of our ordering with the alphanumeric order, i.e., the default ordering used by review tools, on
patches of different sizes. Our prediction-based empirical analysis shows that hot-spot-based
file ordering performs consistently better than alphanumeric ordering in all datasets and

Proc. ACM Softw. Eng., Vol. 1, No. FSE, Article 99. Publication date: July 2024.
An Empirical Study on Code Review Activity Prediction and Its Impact in Practice                                   99:19


Table 9. Ordering based on hot-spot prediction. We report the "Alph" (alphabetic) ordering, and "Ours" our
ordering, based on hot-spot prediction. "%patch" reports the percentage of patches with the range of file
changes. The blue cells indicate the best results by dataset and by metric.

                 Size 2 to 4                     Size 5 to 9                            Size 10 and more
 Dataset     %       Rec@50%          %        Rec@50%       Rec@25%            %        Rec@50%      Rec@25%
             patch Alph Ours          patch   Alph Ours Alph Ours               patch   Alph Ours Alph Ours
 Base        30     72      81        7       72    81      55   70             3       67     78    60   64
 Ironic      50     82      82        14      61    90      44   94             5       68     77    63   74
 Nova        48     69      86        11      71    89      53   69             7       51     73    31   62
 Closed1     38     61      78        18      55    71      45   64             12      52     69    38   59
 Closed2     35     67      79        14      57    73      48   69             11      54     71    42   62



for different patch sizes. Specifically, Table 9 reports a Recall@50% of 71-90% for patches of size
5 to 9, and 69-78% for patches of size 10 and more. Compared to the alphanumeric order, this is an
improvement of respectively +9 to +29% and +9 to +22%. When looking at only the top Recall@25%,
our ordering still performs better than the alphanumeric ordering in all cases, improving the results
from +13 to +50% for size 5 to 9, and +4 to +31% for patch sizes over 10.
   In future work, we consider evaluating the use of this hot-spot prediction for file ordering in a
set-up similar to the user study of Section 3, but with a larger scale and over a longer period.

8.2    Computation time
One of our motivations for evaluating embeddings is that past work reports that simpler approaches
sometimes work better in the case of software engineering prediction tasks [30]. The use of
feature-based approaches, and thus low dimensionality representations, has the advantage of low
storage complexity and lower computational effort for training. Text embedding, on the other
hand, depending on the approach, can be quite expensive to compute and store, and also increases
the training effort. For the example of BoW, the size of the vocabulary explodes with the size of
the corpus increasing. LLM encoding approaches usually embed the text into lower dimensions
compared to BoW (e.g., around 2k for Bloom).
   While our RQ1 results observed that no specific text-embedding stands out in terms of prediction
performance, LLM embeddings report much longer embedding times. In particular, LLM embeddings
take .3 seconds per embedding, leading to 1-2 hours of embedding for open-source and 35-48 hours
for closed-source datasets. In contrast, BoW embedding the full datasets could be done in 4-12
seconds for open-source and around 5 minutes for the closed-source projects. Even if two days
of training might not be an issue if a model is kept up for 6 months, we did not perform any data
drift analysis to find the optimal retraining frequency, and hence the potential impact of longer
embedding time. Model training on the other hand takes longer with BoW, where the longest
training reported for a period was 64 minutes for the BoW embedding and 12 minutes for the LLM
embedding, thus 5 times shorter. We recommend being mindful of the effort needed for each type
of encoding, since LLM embeddings require consequently more time overall.

9     THREATS TO VALIDITY
Internal validity. Review tools can only capture so much, as offline review activities can happen
as well. In the case of our industrial partner, developers have reported chatting via other tools or
doing life reviews in person, which is not captured by their review tool. In this study, we thus only
focus on what has been recorded in the review tools and aim at predicting those review activities.

                                         Proc. ACM Softw. Eng., Vol. 1, No. FSE, Article 99. Publication date: July 2024.
99:20                                                                   Doriane Olewicki, Sarra Habchi, and Bram Adams


   Construct validity. We optimize the results around F1-score, as F1-score is a metric that captures
both the recall and precision of the model, which represents best the model’s performance with
unbalanced datasets. Results could vary slightly if optimized around another metric.
   We chose to evaluate the review activity task at file-level, as it is the granularity that is neces-
sary for the use case we considered, file-ordering. Future work could consider the impact of the
granularity on the prediction, which is outside the scope of this paper.
   We used a zero-shot LLM-encoder as to reduce the computational effort. Fine-tuning the LLMs,
though being computationally expensive, could improve the embedding and thus the results. How-
ever, past work has studied LLM fine-tuning for "commented" prediction [37] and reported similar
results to other Bag-of-Words embeddings [31]. Larger LLMs might lead to better embeddings, even
though the smaller bloom-560m has been reported as more performant than bigger counterparts in
some other use-cases [48], hence it is not uncommon in research to leverage smaller models. As a
compromise, we considered bloom-560m as a lower bound of the LLM embedding approach.
   We worked on a per-project basis for embedding, training and evaluation, which is the default
approach in this domain [30, 37, 54]. An early bootstrap option, when data is not yet available,
might be to initially train on similar datasets (e.g., same coding languages).
   External validity. The LLM field proposes newly trained/updated LLMs regularly. We recom-
mend considering recent LLMs for text embeddings to stay on top of the newest findings in case of
replication, which could yield better results. The version of Bloom we used is from May 2023.
   Regarding our user study with 29 professionals, the participants only had to review two patches.
A large-scale user study over a longer period would be necessary to evaluate the extent to which
the hot-spot-based ordering approach can impact the reviews, especially when reviewers start to
become aware of the underlying ranking heuristics.

10      CONCLUSION
In this paper, we explored different approaches for embedding code changes to predict review
activities. This was motivated by the results of a user study involving 29 professional developers
showing how ordering files in patches by prioritizing files that need review activity improves the
review process. Indeed, we observe that such ordering approach lead to more review comments
(+23%), that targeted parts needing revisions or comments (+13% precision and +8% recall), thus
the need for an efficient review automation prediction approach. While previous work used a
Bag-of-Word approach on the added lines and additional features (i.e., #lines added and #lines
removed) [31], we proposed variations to that embedding.
   First, we improve the textual embedding part by considering embedding the removed lines as a
contextual embedding and also considering LLM embeddings. Though no specific text embedding
stands out in our empirical study on 3 open-source and 2 open-source projects, adding any of our
variations improved results compared to the BoW on the added lines in terms of F1-score in 13/15
cases (up to +5%). Then, we propose review process feature embeddings, using size- and history-
based features. In practice, this performed at least as good as the textual embeddings in 10/15 cases
regarding F1-score, while being less computationally expensive. Especially closed-source datasets
did not show significant difference between text embeddings and the feature-based approaches.
Finally, when combining the text and feature-based embeddings, our approach reports a median
F1-score of 40-62%, improving the performance significantly with medium to large effect compared
to the baseline in all cases (up to +9% F1-score) with the best combination approach for all tasks.
   Hence, we recommend future work on these types of tasks to consider our text embeddings and
review process feature embeddings, as they correlate with significant performance improvements.
We observed that hot-spot prediction as file-ordering approach reports upto +29% recall in the first
half of patches compared to the default alphanumeric ordering.

Proc. ACM Softw. Eng., Vol. 1, No. FSE, Article 99. Publication date: July 2024.
An Empirical Study on Code Review Activity Prediction and Its Impact in Practice                                       99:21


REFERENCES
 [1] [n. d.]. ChatGPT introduction. https://openai.com/blog/chatgpt. Accessed: 2023-09-24.
 [2] [n. d.]. CountVectorizer Python library. https://scikit-learn.org/stable/modules/generated/sklearn.feature_extraction.
     text.CountVectorizer.html. Accessed: 2023-09-24.
 [3] [n. d.]. Hugging Face website. https://huggingface.co/. Accessed: 2023-09-24.
 [4] [n. d.]. Replication package. https://zenodo.org/records/10783562. Accessed: 2023-09-28.
 [5] [n. d.]. Sentence Transformer. https://huggingface.co/sentence-transformers. Accessed: 2023-09-24.
 [6] John Anvik, Lyndon Hiew, and Gail C Murphy. 2006. Who should fix this bug?. In Proceedings of the 28th international
     conference on Software engineering. 361–370.
 [7] Jacob Austin, Augustus Odena, Maxwell Nye, Maarten Bosma, Henryk Michalewski, David Dohan, Ellen Jiang, Carrie
     Cai, Michael Terry, Quoc Le, et al. 2021. Program synthesis with large language models. arXiv preprint arXiv:2108.07732
     (2021).
 [8] Mike Barnett, Christian Bird, João Brunet, and Shuvendu K Lahiri. 2015. Helping developers help themselves: Automatic
     decomposition of code review changesets. In 2015 IEEE/ACM 37th IEEE International Conference on Software Engineering,
     Vol. 1. IEEE, 134–144.
 [9] Tobias Baum and Kurt Schneider. 2016. On the need for a new generation of code review tools. In Product-Focused
     Software Process Improvement: 17th International Conference, PROFES 2016, Trondheim, Norway, November 22-24, 2016,
     Proceedings 17. Springer, 301–308.
[10] Tobias Baum, Kurt Schneider, and Alberto Bacchelli. 2017. On the optimal order of reading source code changes for
     review. In 2017 IEEE international conference on software maintenance and evolution (ICSME). IEEE, 329–340.
[11] BigScience. May 2021 - May 2022. BigScience Language Open-science Open-access Multilingual (BLOOM) Language
     Model. International (May 2021 - May 2022).
[12] Markus Borg, Oscar Svensson, Kristian Berg, and Daniel Hansson. 2019. Szz unleashed: an open implementation of the
     szz algorithm-featuring example usage in a study of just-in-time bug prediction for the jenkins project. In Proceedings
     of the 3rd ACM SIGSOFT International Workshop on Machine Learning Techniques for Software Quality Evaluation. 7–12.
[13] Amiangshu Bosu, Michaela Greiler, and Christian Bird. 2015. Characteristics of useful code reviews: An empirical
     study at microsoft. In 2015 IEEE/ACM 12th Working Conference on Mining Software Repositories. IEEE, 146–156.
[14] Zachary Chase Lipton, Charles Elkan, and Balakrishnan Narayanaswamy. 2014. Thresholding classifiers to maximize
     F1 score. arXiv e-prints (2014), arXiv–1402.
[15] Nitesh V Chawla, Kevin W Bowyer, Lawrence O Hall, and W Philip Kegelmeyer. 2002. SMOTE: synthetic minority
     over-sampling technique. Journal of artificial intelligence research 16 (2002), 321–357.
[16] Jack Cuzick. 1985. A Wilcoxon-type test for trend. Statistics in medicine 4, 1 (1985), 87–90.
[17] Daniel Alencar Da Costa, Shane McIntosh, Weiyi Shang, Uirá Kulesza, Roberta Coelho, and Ahmed E Hassan. 2016. A
     framework for evaluating the results of the szz approach for identifying bug-introducing changes. IEEE Transactions
     on Software Engineering 43, 7 (2016), 641–657.
[18] Nils Dahlbäck, Arne Jönsson, and Lars Ahrenberg. 1993. Wizard of Oz studies: why and how. In Proceedings of the 1st
     international conference on Intelligent user interfaces. 193–200.
[19] Yinlin Deng, Chunqiu Steven Xia, Haoran Peng, Chenyuan Yang, and Lingming Zhang. 2022. Fuzzing deep-learning
     libraries via large language models. arXiv preprint arXiv:2212.14834 (2022).
[20] Jacob Devlin, Ming-Wei Chang, Kenton Lee, and Kristina Toutanova. 2018. Bert: Pre-training of deep bidirectional
     transformers for language understanding. arXiv preprint arXiv:1810.04805 (2018).
[21] Vasiliki Efstathiou and Diomidis Spinellis. 2018. Code review comments: language matters. In Proceedings of the 40th
     International Conference on Software Engineering: New Ideas and Emerging Results. 69–72.
[22] Michael Fagan. 2002. A history of software inspections. Software pioneers: contributions to software engineering (2002),
     562–573.
[23] Enrico Fregnan, Larissa Braz, Marco D’Ambros, Gül Çalıklı, and Alberto Bacchelli. 2022. First come first served: the
     impact of file position on code review. In Proceedings of the 30th ACM Joint European Software Engineering Conference
     and Symposium on the Foundations of Software Engineering. 483–494.
[24] Wei Fu and Tim Menzies. 2017. Easy over hard: A case study on deep learning. In Proceedings of the 2017 11th joint
     meeting on foundations of software engineering. 49–60.
[25] Emanuel Giger, Marco D’Ambros, Martin Pinzger, and Harald C Gall. 2012. Method-level bug prediction. In Proceedings
     of the ACM-IEEE international symposium on Empirical software engineering and measurement. 171–180.
[26] Anshul Gupta and Neel Sundaresan. 2018. Intelligent code reviews using deep learning. In Proceedings of the 24th ACM
     SIGKDD International Conference on Knowledge Discovery and Data Mining (KDD’18) Deep Learning Day.
[27] Kai Han, An Xiao, Enhua Wu, Jianyuan Guo, Chunjing Xu, and Yunhe Wang. 2021. Transformer in transformer.
     Advances in Neural Information Processing Systems 34 (2021), 15908–15919.



                                            Proc. ACM Softw. Eng., Vol. 1, No. FSE, Article 99. Publication date: July 2024.
99:22                                                                    Doriane Olewicki, Sarra Habchi, and Bram Adams


[28] Vincent J Hellendoorn and Premkumar Devanbu. 2017. Are deep neural networks the best choice for modeling source
     code?. In Proceedings of the 2017 11th Joint Meeting on Foundations of Software Engineering. 763–773.
[29] Austin Z Henley, Kıvanç Muçlu, Maria Christakis, Scott D Fleming, and Christian Bird. 2018. Cfar: A tool to increase
     communication, productivity, and review quality in collaborative code reviews. In Proceedings of the 2018 CHI Conference
     on Human Factors in Computing Systems. 1–13.
[30] Yang Hong, Chakkrit Tantithamthavorn, Patanamon Thongtanunam, and Aldeida Aleti. 2022. CommentFinder: a
     simpler, faster, more accurate code review comments recommendation. In Proceedings of the 30th ACM Joint European
     Software Engineering Conference and Symposium on the Foundations of Software Engineering. 507–519.
[31] Yang Hong, Chakkrit Kla Tantithamthavorn, and Patanamon Pick Thongtanunam. 2022. Where Should I Look at?
     Recommending Lines that Reviewers Should Pay Attention To. In 2022 IEEE International Conference on Software
     Analysis, Evolution and Reengineering (SANER). IEEE, 1034–1045.
[32] Xinyi Hou, Yanjie Zhao, Yue Liu, Zhou Yang, Kailong Wang, Li Li, Xiapu Luo, David Lo, John Grundy, and Haoyu
     Wang. 2023. Large Language Models for Software Engineering: A Systematic Literature Review. arXiv preprint
     arXiv:2308.10620 (2023).
[33] Yuan Huang, Nan Jia, Xiangping Chen, Kai Hong, and Zibin Zheng. 2018. Salient-class location: Help developers
     understand code change in code review. In Proceedings of the 2018 26th ACM Joint Meeting on European Software
     Engineering Conference and Symposium on the Foundations of Software Engineering. 770–774.
[34] Yasutaka Kamei, Emad Shihab, Bram Adams, Ahmed E Hassan, Audris Mockus, Anand Sinha, and Naoyasu Ubayashi.
     2012. A large-scale empirical study of just-in-time quality assurance. IEEE Transactions on Software Engineering 39, 6
     (2012), 757–773.
[35] Dongsun Kim, Yida Tao, Sunghun Kim, and Andreas Zeller. 2013. Where should we fix this bug? a two-phase
     recommendation model. IEEE transactions on software Engineering 39, 11 (2013), 1597–1610.
[36] Oleksii Kononenko, Olga Baysal, and Michael W Godfrey. 2016. Code review quality: How developers see it. In
     Proceedings of the 38th international conference on software engineering. 1028–1038.
[37] Zhiyu Li, Shuai Lu, Daya Guo, Nan Duan, Shailesh Jannu, Grant Jenks, Deep Majumder, Jared Green, Alexey Svy-
     atkovskiy, Shengyu Fu, et al. 2022. Automating code review activities by large-scale pre-training. In Proceedings of the
     30th ACM Joint European Software Engineering Conference and Symposium on the Foundations of Software Engineering.
     1035–1047.
[38] Guillermo Macbeth, Eugenia Razumiejczyk, and Rubén Daniel Ledesma. 2011. Cliff’s Delta Calculator: A non-parametric
     effect size program for two groups of observations. Universitas Psychologica 10, 2 (2011), 545–555.
[39] Suvodeep Majumder, Nikhila Balaji, Katie Brey, Wei Fu, and Tim Menzies. 2018. 500+ times faster than deep learning:
     A case study exploring faster methods for text mining stackoverflow. In Proceedings of the 15th International Conference
     on Mining Software Repositories. 554–563.
[40] Mathieu Nayrolles and Abdelwahab Hamou-Lhadj. 2018. Clever: Combining code metrics with clone detection
     for just-in-time fault prevention and resolution in large industrial projects. In Proceedings of the 15th international
     conference on mining software repositories. 153–164.
[41] Doriane Olewicki, Sarra Habchi, Mathieu Nayrolles, Mojtaba Faramarzi, Sarath Chandar, and Bram Adams. 2024. On
     the Costs and Benefits of Adopting Lifelong Learning for Software Analytics - Empirical Study on Brown Build and
     Risk Prediction. In Proceedings of the 46th International Conference on Software Engineering: Software Engineering in
     Practice.
[42] Doriane Olewicki, Mathieu Nayrolles, and Bram Adams. 2022. Towards language-independent brown build detection.
     In Proceedings of the 44th International Conference on Software Engineering. 2177–2188.
[43] OpenAI. 2023. GPT-4 Technical Report. arXiv:2303.08774 [cs.CL]
[44] Goran Petrović and Marko Ivanković. 2018. State of mutation testing at google. In Proceedings of the 40th international
     conference on software engineering: Software engineering in practice. 163–171.
[45] Mohammad Masudur Rahman, Chanchal K Roy, and Jason A Collins. 2016. Correct: code reviewer recommendation in
     github based on cross-project and technology experience. In Proceedings of the 38th international conference on software
     engineering companion. 222–231.
[46] Peter Rigby, Brendan Cleary, Frederic Painchaud, Margaret-Anne Storey, and Daniel German. 2012. Contemporary
     peer review in action: Lessons from open source development. IEEE software 29, 6 (2012), 56–61.
[47] Caitlin Sadowski, Emma Söderberg, Luke Church, Michal Sipko, and Alberto Bacchelli. 2018. Modern code review: a
     case study at google. In Proceedings of the 40th international conference on software engineering: Software engineering in
     practice. 181–190.
[48] Arushi Sharma, Abhibha Gupta, and Maneesh Bilalpur. 2023. Argumentative Stance Prediction: An Exploratory Study
     on Multimodality and Few-Shot Learning. arXiv preprint arXiv:2310.07093 (2023).
[49] Emad Shihab, Ahmed E Hassan, Bram Adams, and Zhen Ming Jiang. 2012. An industrial study on the risk of software
     changes. In Proceedings of the ACM SIGSOFT 20th International Symposium on the Foundations of Software Engineering.


Proc. ACM Softw. Eng., Vol. 1, No. FSE, Article 99. Publication date: July 2024.
An Empirical Study on Code Review Activity Prediction and Its Impact in Practice                                       99:23


     1–11.
[50] Jing Kai Siow, Cuiyun Gao, Lingling Fan, Sen Chen, and Yang Liu. 2020. Core: Automating review recommendation for
     code changes. In 2020 IEEE 27th International Conference on Software Analysis, Evolution and Reengineering (SANER).
     IEEE, 284–295.
[51] Watanabe Takuya and Hidehiko Masuhara. 2011. A spontaneous code recommendation tool based on associative
     search. In Proceedings of the 3rd International Workshop on search-driven development: Users, infrastructure, tools, and
     evaluation. 17–20.
[52] Patanamon Thongtanunam, Raula Gaikovina Kula, Ana Erika Camargo Cruz, Norihiro Yoshida, and Hajimu Iida.
     2014. Improving code review effectiveness through reviewer recommendations. In Proceedings of the 7th International
     Workshop on Cooperative and Human Aspects of Software Engineering. 119–122.
[53] Patanamon Thongtanunam, Chakkrit Tantithamthavorn, Raula Gaikovina Kula, Norihiro Yoshida, Hajimu Iida, and
     Ken-ichi Matsumoto. 2015. Who should review my code? a file location-based code-reviewer recommendation approach
     for modern code review. In 2015 IEEE 22nd International Conference on Software Analysis, Evolution, and Reengineering
     (SANER). IEEE, 141–150.
[54] Rosalia Tufano, Simone Masiero, Antonio Mastropaolo, Luca Pascarella, Denys Poshyvanyk, and Gabriele Bavota.
     2022. Using pre-trained models to boost code review automation. In Proceedings of the 44th International Conference on
     Software Engineering. 2291–2302.
[55] Rosalia Tufano, Luca Pascarella, Michele Tufano, Denys Poshyvanyk, and Gabriele Bavota. 2021. Towards automating
     code review activities. In 2021 IEEE/ACM 43rd International Conference on Software Engineering (ICSE). IEEE, 163–174.
[56] Ashish Vaswani, Noam Shazeer, Niki Parmar, Jakob Uszkoreit, Llion Jones, Aidan N Gomez, Łukasz Kaiser, and Illia
     Polosukhin. 2017. Attention is all you need. Advances in neural information processing systems 30 (2017).
[57] Juanjuan Wang, Mantao Xu, Hui Wang, and Jiwu Zhang. 2006. Classification of imbalanced data by using the SMOTE
     algorithm and locally linear embedding. In 2006 8th international Conference on Signal Processing, Vol. 3. IEEE.
[58] Supatsara Wattanakriengkrai, Patanamon Thongtanunam, Chakkrit Tantithamthavorn, Hideaki Hata, and Kenichi
     Matsumoto. 2020. Predicting defective lines using a model-agnostic technique. IEEE Transactions on Software Engineering
     48, 5 (2020), 1480–1496.
[59] Jason Wei, Yi Tay, Rishi Bommasani, Colin Raffel, Barret Zoph, Sebastian Borgeaud, Dani Yogatama, Maarten Bosma,
     Denny Zhou, Donald Metzler, et al. 2022. Emergent abilities of large language models. arXiv preprint arXiv:2206.07682
     (2022).
[60] Xin Xia and David Lo. 2017. An effective change recommendation approach for supplementary bug fixes. automated
     software engineering 24 (2017), 455–498.
[61] Daoguang Zan, Bei Chen, Fengji Zhang, Dianjie Lu, Bingchao Wu, Bei Guan, Wang Yongji, and Jian-Guang Lou. 2023.
     Large language models meet NL2Code: A survey. In Proceedings of the 61st Annual Meeting of the Association for
     Computational Linguistics (Volume 1: Long Papers). 7443–7464.

Received 2023-09-28; accepted 2024-04-16




                                            Proc. ACM Softw. Eng., Vol. 1, No. FSE, Article 99. Publication date: July 2024.
