                                         Psycholinguistic Analyses in Software Engineering Text:
                                                    A Systematic Literature Review
                                                   Amirali Sajadia,∗, Kostadin Damevskib , Preetha Chatterjeea
                                                                 a
                                                                   Drexel University, Philadelphia, PA, U.S.A
arXiv:2503.05992v2 [cs.SE] 17 Apr 2025




                                                       b
                                                           Virginia Commonwealth University, Richmond, VA, U.S.A




                                         Abstract

                                         Context: A deeper understanding of human factors in software engineer-
                                         ing (SE) is essential for improving team collaboration, decision-making, and
                                         productivity. Communication channels iike code reviews and chats provide
                                         insights into developers’ psychological and emotional states. While large lan-
                                         guage models excel at text analysis, they often lack transparency and preci-
                                         sion. Psycholinguistic tools like Linguistic Inquiry and Word Count (LIWC)
                                         offer clearer, interpretable insights into cognitive and emotional processes ex-
                                         hibited in text. Despite its wide use in SE research, no comprehensive review
                                         of LIWC’s use has been conducted.
                                               Objective: We examine the importance of psycholinguistic tools, par-
                                         ticularly LIWC, and provide a thorough analysis of its current and potential
                                         future applications in SE research.
                                               Methods: We conducted a systematic review of six prominent databases,
                                         identifying 43 SE-related papers using LIWC. Our analysis focuses on five

                                           ∗
                                            Corresponding author.
                                            Email addresses: amirali.sajadi@drexel.edu (Amirali Sajadi),
                                         kdamevski@vcu.edu (Kostadin Damevski), preetha.chatterjee@drexel.edu (Preetha
                                         Chatterjee)


                                         Preprint submitted to Information and Software Technology                 April 21, 2025
research questions: RQ1. How was LIWC employed in SE studies, and for
what purposes?, RQ2. What datasets were analyzed using LIWC?, RQ3:
What Behavioral Software Engineering (BSE) concepts were studied using
LIWC? RQ4: How often has LIWC been evaluated in SE research?, RQ5:
What concerns were raised about adopting LIWC in SE?
   Results: Our findings reveal a wide range of applications, including an-
alyzing team communication to detect developer emotions and personality,
developing ML models to predict deleted Stack Overflow posts, and more
recently comparing AI-generated and human-written text. LIWC has been
primarily used with data from project management platforms (e.g., GitHub)
and Q&A forums (e.g., Stack Overflow). Key BSE concepts include Commu-
nication, Organizational Climate, and Positive Psychology. 26 of 43 papers
did not formally evaluate LIWC. Concerns were raised about some limita-
tions, including difficulty handling SE-specific vocabulary.
   Conclusion: We highlight the potential of psycholinguistic tools and
their limitations, and present new use cases for advancing research on human
factors in SE (e.g., bias in human-LLM conversations).
Keywords: LIWC, Psycholinguistics, Text Analysis, Systematic Literature
Review


1. Introduction

   Understanding human factors in SE is critical to improving collaboration,
decision making, and productivity in development teams. The vast amount
of textual data generated by stakeholders, developers, and users – ranging
from code reviews to chats – contains valuable insight into the psychological


                                      2
and emotional states of those involved in software projects. Understanding
these factors can reveal key issues in software teams, such as job satisfaction,
project participation, and developer attrition [1, 2, 3]. However, leveraging
the full potential of textual data requires the use of specialized tools capable
of accurately analyzing unique language patterns and vocabulary used in
software engineering [4, 5].
   As one of the most widely used psycholinguistic tools, LIWC has played
a significant role in advancing research in many scientific fields [6, 7, 8, 9,
10, 11, 12]. In software engineering studies, LIWC has been adopted and
used repeatedly by researchers since 2007 until now, providing insight into
developer collaboration, the emotional tone of project discussions, the over-
all dynamics of software teams, etc. While previous studies have examined
the use of opinion mining and sentiment analysis tools in SE [13], this study
focuses on psycholinguistic tools due to their ability to target and interpret
complex psychological constructs. In particular, we explore the significant
role of LIWC in the analysis of SE-specific language toward gaining insights
into various psychological and social factors affecting the daily tasks of soft-
ware engineers. Through a systematic paper selection process, we identified
43 papers that study SE-related topics with the help of LIWC. We closely
examined each of these papers to answer the following research questions:

• RQ1: How was LIWC employed in SE studies, and for what spe-
  cific activities and purposes?
  We found that LIWC has been predominantly used to study Team Manage-
  ment in SE, and applied in tasks such as personality detection, emotional
  tone analysis, and quality assessment of Stack Overflow posts. Moreover,

                                       3
 LIWC has been used both directly and indirectly in these tasks, with the
 latter including the use of LIWC’s output in feature sets of machine learn-
 ing models, enabling tasks such as predicting the likelihood of a post’s
 deletion on Stack Overflow.

• RQ2: What textual data/datasets were analyzed by LIWC?
 We observed a wide range of textual data types and datasets analyzed
 using LIWC, such as Q&A posts on Stack Overflow and Kaggle, developer
 communication on IRC chat channels, and email archives. This diverse set
 of data sources highlights LIWC’s flexibility in processing different forms
 of communication in the SE domain.

• RQ3: What Behavioral Software Engineering (BSE) concepts
 were studied using LIWC?
 The core BSE concepts studied using LIWC include team dynamics, col-
 laboration, motivation, and developer productivity. Understanding these
 concepts is critical, as they offer insights into how psycholinguistic tools
 like LIWC contribute to solving practical SE challenges, particularly by an-
 alyzing how communication and collaboration impact team performance.

• RQ4: How often and in what way(s) has LIWC been evaluated
 in a software engineering context?
 We identified 17 studies that conducted formal evaluations of LIWC in
 SE contexts. In our review, evaluation refers to any effort by researchers
 to assess LIWC’s effectiveness or reliability within their studies. These
 evaluations varied in scope but provided validation of LIWC’s role in SE
 research.


                                     4
  We identified 17 studies that conducted evaluations of LIWC in SE con-
  texts. In our review, evaluation refers to any effort by SE researchers
  to assess LIWC’s effectiveness or reliability. Methods included compar-
  isons with ground-truth data and other forms of methodological valida-
  tion. These evaluations varied in scope but provided evidence supporting
  LIWC’s use in SE research.

• RQ5: What concerns or limitations were mentioned by the re-
  searchers adopting LIWC in the software engineering domain?
  We categorized concerns raised about LIWC into two main areas: (1) in-
  herent limitations of LIWC as a lexicon-based tool, e.g., limited language
  support, and (2) challenges with its adoption in SE, particularly in han-
  dling domain-specific vocabulary. These limitations suggest that while
  LIWC is valuable, there is room for improving its SE-specific vocabulary.

   By outlining LIWC’s role in software engineering research, we provide re-
searchers with the insights needed to apply LIWC effectively. This study not
only highlights its current applications and limitations, but also encourages
the community to enhance and integrate LIWC with other tools for a more
holistic understanding of software engineering practices. We discuss oppor-
tunities for improving LIWC’s use and propose new approaches, including
the integration of LIWC with LLMs, to advance its application in software
engineering research.




                                     5
2. Background

2.1. Psycholinguistics

   Psycholinguistics is an interdisciplinary field with roots in psychology
and linguistics, investigating the complex connection between the mind and
language. More specifically, this discipline seeks to uncover the workings
of the human brain when individuals engage in language, be it written or
spoken [14, 15, 16].
   Psycholinguistics explores a wide range of topics and intersects with sev-
eral scientific domains. It ventures into the field of neuroscience, studying the
physiology of the human brain to understand the functions behind its abil-
ity to acquire and use language effectively. Psycholinguists also study the
psychological facets of language. Through experimentation, they discover
the processes that link language to human cognition, for instance language’s
complex interplay with short-term and long-term memory [17].
   In addition, the history of psycholinguistics has deep philosophical roots
that have sparked transformative moments in the evolution of science. For
instance, the development of psycholinguistics contributed to research on
language acquisition, which itself has broadened our understanding of the
nature of human learning [18]. Similarly, psycholinguistics influenced the
shift in the field of psychology from the study of behaviorism to the study
of mental processes, for example, language comprehension and generation
[19]. A pivotal moment was Noam Chomsky’s critique of behaviorism. The
movement he initiated, known as the Chomskyan revolution, significantly
affected the field, leaving a mark on the landscape of psycholinguistics [20].



                                       6
2.2. Text Analysis

      According to Neuendorf & Kimberly, content analysis can be succinctly
defined as “the systematic, objective, quantitative analysis of message char-
acteristics.” [21]. As a specific type of content analysis that focuses on text-
based data, text analysis finds application in various domains through tasks
including sentiment analysis, topic modeling, information extraction, text
summarization, and language translation.
      Today, a plethora of text analysis algorithms and software applications
are readily accessible. Text analysis algorithms, however, predate the recent
breakthroughs in machine learning, deep learning, and natural language pro-
cessing techniques that have enabled the recent advancements in the quality
of text processing. A distinctive characteristic of the prior generation of
statistical text analysis algorithms is their utilization of dictionaries, often
multiple, created and used for the analysis of text. Dictionaries provide a
mapping between specific words in the language and the relevant concepts
under study. For instance, the Linguistic Inquiry and Word Count (LIWC)
tool leverages custom dictionaries for the measure of the expression of a
specific psychological concept in the text, i.e., as a psycholinguistic analysis
tool.

2.3. Linguistic Inquiry and Word Count (LIWC)

      James W. Pennebaker et al. initially developed Linguistic Inquiry and
Word Count (LIWC) 1 to automate parts of the text analysis process they
intended to use for analyzing essays written by people who have experienced

  1
      https://www.liwc.app


                                       7
trauma. Since then, LIWC has been used across different disciplines to ana-
lyze text and, among other use-cases, extract psychological information from
the text [22].
   In a top-down fashion, LIWC’s dictionaries categorize words into pre-
determined categories, mapping them to important psychological constructs
and theories. The categories cover a wide range of linguistic and psycho-
logical dimensions, including cognition, affect, social processes, culture, and
motives, to name a few. Table 1 lists all the categories directly mentioned in
our selected studies that are still available in the 2022 version of the LIWC.
   To improve clarity, we have divided LIWC categories in Table 1 into three
subsections as follows: (1) Summary Variables, (2) Text Statistics, and (3)
Lexical Variables. The values for Text Statistics and Lexical Variables are
calculated based on the percentage of the words in the text that fall un-
der them. However, Summary variables are derived from the percentage of
words in other LIWC categories. The Summary Variables stand as the only
non-transparent dimensions within the LIWC program, as the precise calcu-
lations leading to the values assigned to these categories remain unknown.
In Table 1, we include the explanations or common words listed in each
category. For example, under Lexical Variables section, “Drives” category
includes words that are intended to capture motivational language related to
affiliation, achievement, and cognitive engagement (e.g., we, know, work ).
   Based on the word count, i.e., the frequency of specific words in a body of
text, and the percentages of words falling into each of the categories, LIWC
provides insight into psychological and emotional content in text. Over the
years, various studies have validated the correlation between LIWC’s output


                                      8
and a wide range of psychological concepts. In a 2010 publication, Tausczik &
Pennebaker pointed out these correlations by referencing studies that used
tools such as surveys, personality assessments, and self-reports to analyze
participants’ linguistic patterns [22].

                   Table 1: LIWC-22 Categories Mentioned in Our Study Subjects.


  Category                                          Description / Frequent Exemplars


                                      Summary Variables


  Analytical thinking                               Measure of formal/logical thinking
  Clout                                             Measure of language indicating confidence and
                                                    status
  Authentic                                         Measure of perceived honesty and genuineness
  Emotional tone                                    Measure of of positive vs. negative affect


                                         Text Statistics


  Word count                                        Total number of words
  Words per sentence                                Average words per sentence
  Big words                                         Percentage of words 7 letters or longer
  Dictionary words                                  Percentage of words matched in LIWC dictio-
                                                    nary
  Total function words                              Total number of function words (e.g., the, to,
                                                    and, I )


                                        Lexical Variables


  1st person singular                               I, me, my, myself
  1st person plural                                 we, our, us, let’s
  2nd person                                        you, your, u, yourself
  3rd person singular                               he, she, her, his
  3rd person plural                                 they, their, them, themsel*
  Articles                                          a, an, the, alot
  Prepositions                                      to, of, in, for
  Adverbs                                           so, just, about, there



                                                9
  Category                                 Description / Frequent Exemplars
  Conjunctions                             and, but, so, as
  Auxiliary verbs                          is, was, be, have
  Common verbs                             is, was, be, have
  Impersonal pronouns                      that, it, this, what
  Numbers                                  one, two, first, once
  Negations                                not, no, never, nothing
  Positive emotion                         good, love, happy, hope
  Negative emotion                         bad, hate, hurt, tired
  Anxiety                                  worry, fear, afraid, nervous
  Anger                                    hate, mad, angry, frustr*
  Sadness                                  : (, sad, disappoint*, cry
  Social processes                         you, we, he, she
  Work                                     work, school, working, class
  Achievement                              work, better, best, working
  Leisure                                  game*, fun, play, party*
  Money                                    business*, pay*, price*, market*
  Time                                     when, now, then, day
  Past focus                               was, had, were, been
  Present focus                            is, are, I’m, can
  Future focus                             will, going to, have to, may
  Visual                                   see, look, eye*, saw
  Auditory                                 sound*, heard, hear, music
  Fillers                                  rr*, wow, sooo*, youknow
  Insight                                  know, how, think, feel
  Drives                                   we, our, work, us
  Discrepancy                              would, can, want, could
  Tentative                                if, or, any, something
  Certitude                                really, actually, of course, real
  All-or-none                              all, no, never, always



   For instance, they highlight how the use of words under the 1st person
singular category e.g., “I”, “me”, and “mine” reflects self-focus. Psycho-
logical concepts like self-reflection, insecurity, anxiety, and even depression
have been shown to correlate with increased use of 1st person singular words
in various contexts, as individuals experiencing these states tend to center

                                      10
their attention inwardly, which is reflected in their language use. These find-
ings were established through empirical research that connected participants’
word usage with their self-reported psychological states, providing strong ev-
idence of the links between language patterns and psychological phenomena.
   Since the initial release of LIWC, multiple versions of it have been created,
each characterized by a larger dictionary and a more extensive set of inter-
pretable dimensions. LIWC2015, for instance, uses dictionaries with as many
as 4500 words [23], while LIWC-22’s internal dictionary contains 12000 words
[24]. Notably, new functionalities were added to the 2022 version of LIWC
that have been absent in the previous versions. For instance, LIWC-22 offers
narrative arc, word frequency and word clouds, and a dictionary workbench
designed to streamline the cumbersome process behind the creation of custom
dictionaries [24]. Lists of the dimensions and capabilities included in each
version of LIWC can be found in the corresponding published journal articles
or manuals, e.g., https://www.liwc.app/help/psychometrics-manuals.


3. Related Work

3.1. Systematic Literature Reviews of Behavioral Analyses in Software En-
     gineering

   Several SLRs were conducted to identify the use of behavioral analyses in
SE. The scope of studies incorporating behavioral analysis in SE is extensive,
covering topics such as sentiment and emotion detection [13, 25, 26, 27, 28],
personality assessment [29, 30, 31], and job satisfaction [3, 32]. Researchers
employ a wide range of methodologies, from traditional tools like question-
naires and interviews to automated Machine Learning (ML) models, to an-


                                      11
swer their research questions. This diversity highlights the vast potential for
further exploration to deepen our understanding of the human element in
the software engineering process.
   Lenberg et al.’s comprehensive literature review on behavioral software
engineering, for example, demonstrates the variety of approaches available
for studying human factors in SE tasks [33]. Their review points to several
key research areas—such as work and organizational psychology, the psy-
chology of programming, and behavioral economics—that contribute to the
broader field of behavioral software engineering. This interdisciplinary ap-
proach highlights the significance of human behaviors and their influence on
software development [33].
   Numerous studies have also explored the impact of various human fac-
tors within development environments, along with methods for their detec-
tion. Lin et al. conducted a systematic literature review (SLR) focusing on
opinion mining in software development, including tasks such as sentiment
analysis, emotion detection, and politeness detection [13]. Another survey
study looked at empirical research on developer emotions between 2005 and
2018 [34]. Felipe et al. conducted a similar review, examining the psycho-
metric tools used to infer personality types in software engineering research
[29]. Studies of this nature frequently identify LIWC as a tool for detecting
the psychological concepts and human factors they examine. To date, how-
ever, no prior work has systematically reviewed how LIWC itself has been
adopted, evaluated, and applied across the entire body of software engineer-
ing research. While other SLRs focus on broader psychological or behavioral
techniques, our study is the first to concentrate exclusively on the role and


                                      12
methodological implications of LIWC within software engineering.

3.2. Use of LIWC Outside Software Engineering

   Through a variety of applications, LIWC has demonstrated a unique abil-
ity to discover insights about individuals through their written or spoken
words. LIWC remains a popular tool in diverse domains of study despite
certain limitations inherent to a dictionary-based approach, such as its in-
ability to account for sarcasm or negation in text. LIWC remains widely
used across research domains, with 810 citations in 2023 alone, highlighting
its continued relevance and broad impact in various fields.
   The work of Pennebaker et al. reflects LIWC’s versatile use-cases [35].
For instance, LIWC has been frequently used to assess the emotional con-
tent of text, performing tasks such as sentiment analysis and the detection
of specific emotions [36]. Additionally, it has been used to assess the per-
sonality traits of individuals who contribute to the text [29]. In psychology
research, many have used LIWC to detect depression [6, 37] and to study
how the language use of couples relates to their marital satisfaction and the
overall health of the marriage [8, 9]. LIWC has also been used to analyze text
with political content to assess the public’s opinion on political topics and to
find common linguistic patterns in speech of famous politicians [38, 39, 40].
Other researchers have analyzed psychological concepts within a wide range
of texts, including suicidal poems [41], Al-Qaeda transcripts [42], and social
media posts written by users dealing with the impacts of the Covid-19 pan-
demic [43]. The variety and quantity of these studies have showcased LIWC’s
unparalleled ability to analyze human emotions, thoughts, and intentions en-
coded within language.

                                      13
   Despite LIWC’s wide adoption across many disciplines, and its frequent
appearance in SE studies, no existing review has examined its specific appli-
cations, limitations, and potential, specifically within the context of software
engineering. This gap motivates the need for a focused SLR that examines
LIWC’s contributions to SE research, an effort we undertake in this study.


4. Review Methodology

   The goal of this paper is to review and analyze the software engineer-
ing research that uses LIWC. Following the review study methodology by
Kitchenham et al. [44], this section outlines our approach toward identifying
relevant research papers. An overview of our approach for selecting the rele-
vant papers is shown in Figure 1. Additionally, we address PRISMA items in
Kitchenham et al.’s checklist for secondary studies to ensure alignment with
the systematic review standards [45]. For further reference, please find our
PRISMA 2020 checklist attached in the Appendix Appendix B.
   To select the papers for our survey, we first curated a query to retrieve as
many relevant research papers in digital libraries as possible. We examined
the retrieved papers closely (first title and abstract and then the full text) to
filter out any irrelevant or inappropriate studies based on a set of specific in-
clusion and exclusion criteria (detailed description in Table 3). This step was
followed by forward and backward snowballing in order to locate any papers
that our initial query may have missed. Specifically, we adopted a hybrid
approach that combined comprehensive keyword-based searches with both
forward and backward snowballing, as supported by recent SLR methodolo-
gies [46, 13, 34]. Finally, the newly collected papers were again manually


                                       14
               Figure 1: The process of relevant study identification.


filtered, leaving us with the final set of papers that we analyzed in this study
(n=43). The remainder of this section explains each step of this process in
more detail.

4.1. Online Query

   To ensure a comprehensive retrieval of relevant studies, we refined our
search query iteratively through a process of trial and validation. Initially,
we started with broad queries such as “liwc” OR ”linguistic inquiry and word
count”, which retrieved a large number of papers across multiple digital li-
braries, but many were unrelated to software engineering. We then progres-
sively refined the query by adding domain-specific terms, such as “software”,
“software engineering”, and “developer” OR “development”, to filter studies
focused on software engineering applications. For instance, adding “soft-


                                         15
ware engineering” significantly reduced irrelevant results while maintaining
coverage of key studies. Additionally, we explored broader psycholinguistic
and behavioral software engineering terms, such as “psycholinguistic” OR
”psychometric” AND ”text analysis” AND ”software engineering”, to iden-
tify studies that might not explicitly reference LIWC but were relevant to
our research scope. The final query (“liwc” OR ”linguistic inquiry and word
count”) AND (”software engineering”) retrieved the highest number of rele-
vant papers possible. A full record of all queries, retrieval counts, and query
refinements is included in our replication package for transparency and re-
producibility.
   This process, coupled with insights from prior literature regarding suit-
able phrases for the retrieval of the software engineering papers [13], led us
to select the following search query:

   (“liwc” OR “linguistic inquiry and word count”) AND (“soft-
ware engineering”)

   The initial part of the query, (“liwc” OR “linguistic inquiry and word
count”), is designed with the intent of inclusively capturing papers that
reference the complete name of the targeted tool or its widely recognized
abbreviation, “LIWC”. The latter component of our query, (“software engi-
neering”), serves as a filter, enabling the identification of papers discussing
subjects related to the field of software engineering while not posing as much
limitations as terms such as “developer”.
   We selected prominent digital archives for our study: IEEE Xplore Digital
Library [47], ACM Digital Library [48], Elsevier ScienceDirect [49], Springer



                                        16
Link Online Library [50], Wiley Online Library [51], and Scopus [52]. The
questionable quality of some content on Google Scholar led us to the decision
of excluding it as a resource [53]. Table 2 illustrates the number of papers
retrieved from each source in our study.

                Table 2: Number of Retrieved Papers From Each Source
     Source                                       Number of Retrieved Papers
     IEEE Xplore Digital Library                               6
     ACM Digital Library                                      88
     Springer Link Online Library                             444
     Elsevier ScienceDirect                                   56
     Wiley Online Library                                      8
     Scopus                                                   279
     Total (after duplicate removal)                          788



   After eliminating duplicate papers from various sources, we were left with
a total of 788 unique documents. Given both the reasonable number of
papers and our resource constraints, we decided not to impose any further
restrictions on the searches carried out within these online libraries. Our
approach involved conducting the searches through the entire body of text
rather than limiting ourselves to titles and abstracts alone. Although this
method may have led to a higher number of unrelated papers in our results,
we deemed it essential to ensure that we identified all relevant papers. This
choice was made because not all studies that utilize LIWC at some point
in their process explicitly mention it in their titles or abstracts. Next, all
659 articles were subjected to a thorough manual examination, following
the method detailed in Section 4.2, to pinpoint the relevant studies for this
research.



                                        17
4.2. Paper Selection and Eligibility

   To support the manual paper selection process, we first established a pre-
cise set of inclusion and exclusion criteria in Table 3, following the PRISMA
framework’s requirements [45]. All the papers included in this study must
have undergone peer review and have been published in conferences, work-
shops, or journals. These papers primarily focus on topics related to software
development and use LIWC in their analyses. Additionally, two authors con-
tributed to this manual selection process. The first author used the inclusion
and exclusion criteria to identify relevant papers. After each of the two
review phases, the second author independently examined the final list, veri-
fying whether each paper’s inclusion aligned with the criteria. Discrepancies
or uncertainties were discussed between the two authors until full agreement
was reached. This step added a layer of rigor and helped ensure a consistent
application of our selection criteria.
   Our manual selection process began by inspecting the titles and abstracts
of the papers in order to eliminate irrelevant ones, such as those unrelated
to software engineering research, guided by our exclusion criteria. In cases
where the information in the title and abstract did not provide sufficient
grounds for exclusion, the paper was kept to undergo the next step of our
manual selection.
   Close examination of titles and abstracts resulted in a collection of 91
potential papers. Subsequently, we examined the text of these 91 papers in
their entirety, applying both inclusion and exclusion criteria to determine
their eligibility for inclusion in our study. At this stage, we also took note
of any information necessary to answer the research questions, e.g., the data


                                         18
                       Table 3: Inclusion and Exclusion Criteria
      Inclusion Criteria



IC1   The paper must have undergone the peer-review process and published at conferences,
      workshops, or journals
IC2   The paper must be available in one of the online libraries mentioned in Section 4.1


IC3   The conducted study in the paper must contribute to our understanding of the software
      development process or propose a solution to further advance the related practices.
IC4   The study must adopt LIWC to analyze textual data.


      Exclusion Criteria



EC1   The paper is not entirely written in English, the dominantly used language for research
      publications
EC2   The adopted lexicons and methods in the research are specific to a language other than
      English, which makes the technique not comparable to others.
EC3   The paper either serves as an extension of a previously accounted-for conference publica-
      tion or its extended version has already been included.
EC4   The paper is not a traditional research publication and instead serves as an abstract-only
      submission, doctoral thesis, book, poster, etc.
EC5   The paper does not explain what approach was used and in what way LIWC was used.


EC6   Papers that do not meet the inclusion criteria of contributing to SE and using LIWC.




                                              19
types, the data sets and the LIWC categories used in the study. The full-text
assessment led to the retention of 36 relevant studies.
   As a measure to mitigate any potential limitations of our initial online
digital library search, we adopted a forward and backward snowballing ap-
proach on the 36 selected papers. This involved gathering all the citations
and references cited within these 36 papers, thereby ensuring the inclusion
of additional potential papers that may not have been found in our initial
search results.
   Our snowballing process led to the identification of 494 new and unique
papers, which we then subjected to manual selection. Based on the titles and
abstracts, we narrowed the number down to 301 potential papers. After con-
ducting a thorough full-text-based filtering, we finally identified 7 additional
papers.
   In total, our paper selection process led to the identification of 43 studies
(36 in the first iteration + 7 through snowballing) that are the subjects of this
survey. The complete set of final papers used throughout this work is listed
in Appendix A, where references to each study are provided. Henceforth, we
refer to these papers with “S” prefixes e.g., [S1], [S2], etc. Table 4 illustrates
the distribution of our chosen papers based on their publication years. The
first software engineering paper using LIWC was published in 2007 [S27].
Since then several software engineering studies have used LIWC to directly
analyze many facets of developers’ communications. After 2013, the number
of software engineering publications that leveraged LIWC in their studies
has noticeably grown. As of 2023, LIWC continues to feature prominently in
software engineering studies, highlighting the community’s ongoing interest


                                       20
and the relevance of this tool in the research area.

         Table 4: The Use of LIWC in Software Engineering Research Over Time
          Year                  Number of Papers           Running Total
          2007                  1                          1
          2012                  3                          4
          2013                  5                          9
          2014                  5                          14
          2016                  5                          18
          2017                  4                          23
          2018                  3                          26
          2019                  1                          27
          2020                  4                          31
          2021                  4                          35
          2022                  4                          39
          2023                  3                          42
          Jan-Aug 2024          1                          43
          Total                 43                         43




4.3. Data Extraction and Coding

      In this section, we describe the approach used to extract and code data
from each paper included in our review. After retrieving the papers from the
sources discussed above, we automatically collected basic metadata for each
paper, including its title, author(s), publication year, and venue i.e., journal
or conference. This information, along with the papers themselves, is made
available in our replication package 2 .
      In line with SLR requirements and in order to systematically analyze the
content of each paper, we created a data extraction form relevant to our

  2
      https://figshare.com/articles/dataset/Psycholinguistic_Analyses_in_
Software_Engineering_Text_A_Systematic_Literature_Review/28774319


                                         21
research questions. We used this form to record data such as the LIWC
categories utilized, the datasets analyzed, the specific software engineering
activities addressed and the behavioral software engineering concepts inves-
tigated. The list of all data fields required is presented below:


  1. Paper title
  2. Authors
  3. Year of publication
  4. Publication venue (journal/conference)
  5. Purpose for using LIWC
  6. LIWC utilization: direct interpretation or indirect use
  7. LIWC categories used
  8. Dataset(s) analyzed
  9. Software engineering activities studied
 10. Behavioral software engineering concepts addressed
 11. Evaluation methods used to assess LIWC’s effectiveness
 12. Mentioned limitations or concerns with using LIWC


   For identifying the software engineering activities and behavioral software
engineering (BSE) concepts, we adopted a deductive coding approach [54],
applying established taxonomies as discussed in Sections 5.2 and 5.3. For
other data extraction tasks, such as identifying the purpose of using LIWC,
types of data analyzed, and concerns reported by authors, we employed an
inductive coding approach [54], developing categories iteratively based on re-
curring patterns in the reviewed papers. Two authors independently coded
all 43 studies. Following Kitchenham et al.’s guidelines for systematic reviews

                                      22
[44], we calculated Cohen’s Kappa coefficients for each coding dimension to
assess inter-rater reliability. The resulting Cohen’s Kappa coefficients were:
0.61 for both software engineering activities and BSE concepts, and 1.00
for determining the direct/indirect use-cases of LIWC, the purpose for us-
ing LIWC, datasets used, evaluation techniques, and concerns or limitations.
Where initial agreement was below the threshold of substantial agreement
(i.e., less than 0.6), the coding was refined through discussion until substan-
tial agreement was achieved across all dimensions, following the guidelines
proposed by Landis and Koch [55]. The slightly lower agreement for SE ac-
tivities and BSE concepts can be attributed to the inherent complexity and
occasional overlap of categories and labels within each of these dimensions’
taxonomies, which may lead to subtle differences in interpretation. Nonethe-
less, the final levels of agreement, each above 0.6, meet the standard for
substantial inter-rater reliability.


5. Results

5.1. RQ1: How was LIWC employed in SE studies, and for what specific
     activities and purposes?

5.1.1. Software Engineering Activities
   We examine specific software engineering activities that were studied us-
ing LIWC in SE studies. Borrowing Lin et al.’s taxonomy [13], we categorized
the studies based on the following development activities: Design Definition
Process, Knowledge Management Process, Quality Assurance Process, Stake-
holder Needs and Requirements Definition Process, Team Management. Most
papers tackled subjects related to the Team Management in development

                                       23
teams. Despite the heavy focus on the human interactions of developers and
team members, the studies had different focus areas. For instance, three of
the papers that used LIWC to process app reviews focus on Quality Assur-
ance activities [S22, S38, S40] and three other studies focus on the Knowledge
Management Process [S1, S15, S39]. Furthermore, Hellman et al.’s work on
analyzing the language used in user forums of projects such as Zotero and Au-
dacity examines the behaviors and expectations of the end-user and therefore
makes a contribution to the Stakeholder Needs and Requirements Definition
Process [S21].
   It does not come as a surprise that LIWC, a tool frequently used for auto-
mated psycholinguistic analysis, is being used dominantly to better manage
developer teams. The more creative approaches can link LIWC’s results
to the more technical aspect of software development; however, tangible im-
provements to the software engineering process are not only possible through
technical advances [56]. Additionally, many studies point to the existence of
correlations between team members’ behaviors and projects’ outcomes which
can be essential to the improvement of the software engineering processes
[57, 58, 59].

5.1.2. Direct and Indirect Use of LIWC
   As part of answering RQ1, we examined how LIWC has been used across
SE studies and identified two overall usage patterns: direct and indirect.
In Table 5, we list all the direct and indirect uses of LIWC along with the
categories used for each performed activity and task. We elaborate on both
usage types below.
   Among all the included studies in our survey, 19 used LIWC to directly

                                     24
analyze text. As the name suggests, direct use of LIWC refers to the cases
in which researchers used LIWC’s outputs directly to interpret and gain in-
sights from the textual data without any further processing. These use-cases
frequently encompass tasks such as detecting developer emotions (e.g., anger,
negative emotion, and anxiety) [S13, S18, S28, S30] using LIWC categories
like affect, emotions, etc. Other tasks included assessing characteristics, such
as goal orientation and sociability [S5, S10, S23, S26] and evaluating the lin-
guistic features of LLM responses to Stack Overflow questions.
   On the other hand, 21 studies employed LIWC’s output indirectly, using it
to develop other algorithms or models, or to extract insights that necessitated
further processing of LIWC’s outputs. The most common method of using
LIWC indirectly was to uncover developers’ personalities [S2, S8, S9, S19,
S27, S35]. Indeed, prior research has demonstrated multiple methods of
inferring text authors’ personalities using LIWC. Pennebaker & King [60],
Yarkoni et al. [30], and Goldbeck et al. [61] all have proposed methods of
leveraging LIWC for measuring the personality traits of an author based on
the widely used Big-Five Factor personality model [62]. However, it should be
noted that while the original studies that employ LIWC categories to measure
personality traits have received significant attention [60, 30, 61], their focus
has predominantly centered on general rather than domain-specific text, such
as software engineering-related content.




                                      25
             Table 5: The Direct (D) and Indirect (I) Use of LIWC and The Specific Cate-
             gories Used for Text Analysis.


Activity         Task                      D/I     LIWC Categories                                                Study

Team   Manage-   Group Communication       D       Pronouns,       Cognitive,     Work      and   Achievement,    S26,
ment             Analysis in Teams                 Leisure, Social and Positive, Negative Language                S31,
                                                                                                                  S32,
                                                                                                                  S34, S36

                 Group Communication       D       Cognitive, Work and Achievement, Leisure, Social               S29, S33
                 Analysis in Teams                 and Positive, Negative Language

                 Identifying   Developer   I       Visual, Auditive, “Kinaesthetic”                               S25
                 Preferences

                 Group Communication       D       Achieve, Affect, Discrep, Funct, Hear, Humans,                 S18
                 Analysis in Teams                 Leisure, Negative Emotion, Numerals, Past, Present,
                                                   QuestionMark, Social

                 Group Communication       D       Work and achievement, negative, cognitive, social              S17
                 Analysis in Teams                 and positive

                 Group Communication       D       Linguistic process, Linguistic categories, Psycholog-          S6
                 Analysis in Teams                 ical Processes, relativity, current concerns, spoken
                                                   categories, and punctuation

                 Group Communication       D       Pronouns, Cognitive, Work and Achievement, Emo-                S5
                 Analysis in Teams                 tions

                 Group Communication       D       Pronouns,       Work   and     Achievement,       Cognitive,   S10
                 Analysis in Teams                 Leisure, Social and Emotions

                 Group Communication       D       Achievement, Work, Positive, Negative, Insight, So-            S37
                 Analysis in Teams                 cial, prop(I)

                 Group Communication       D       prop(focusfuture),           prop(we),         prop(posemo),   S9
                 Analysis in Teams                 prop(negemo), prop(certain), prop(tentative)

                 Group Communication       I       Categories Not Specified                                       S4
                 Analysis in Teams

                 Group Communication       I       Personal pronouns,       Impersonal Pronouns,          Arti-   S24
                 Analysis in Teams                 cles, Prepositions, Auxiliary verbs, Common ad-
                                                   verbs, Conjunctions, Negations, Analytical Think-
                                                   ing, Clout, Authentic, and Emotional Tone.

                 Group Communication       D & I   Standard WC Pronouns, Cognitive, Relative, Opti-               S27
                 Analysis in Teams                 mism, References to Time, Future tense verbs, So-
                                                   cial Processes, Categories correlated with personal-
                                                   ity traits in [60]

                 Personality Detection     I       Categories correlated with personality traits in [60]          S2, S20,
                                                                                                                  S23

                 Personality Detection     I       Categories correlated with personality traits in [30]          S19
                                                   and [61]

                 Personality Detection     I       Categories correlated with personality traits in [30]          S7

                                                                                         Continued on the next page




                                                   26
 Activity              Task                     D/I     LIWC Categories                                          Study

                       Personality Detection    I       Categories correlated with personality traits in [30],   S8
                                                        Categories used in Personality Recognizer tool 3

                       Personality Detection    D & I   Categories correlated with personality traits in [60],   S35
                                                        Cognitive, Work and Achievement, Leisure, Social
                                                        and Positive, Negative Language

                       Emotion Detection        D       Positive affect (Positive Emotion), Negative affect      S30
                                                        (Negative Emotion, Sadness, Anger, Anxiety, Inhi-
                                                        bition)

                       Emotion Detection        D       Anger                                                    S28

                       Emotion Detection        I       Categories Not Specified                                 S12, S13

                       Emotion Detection        I       Anger                                                    S14

                       Sentiment Analysis       I       Categories Not Specified                                 S3

                       Argument Extraction      D & I   Categories Not Specified                                 S11

 Quality      Assur-   Predicting Deletion of   I       Personal Pronouns, Pronouns, Space, Relativity, In-      S1, S39
 ance                  Stack Overflow Post              clusive, Cognitive Process, Social, 1st Person Singu-
                                                        lar Pronouns, Function Words, Conjunctions, Prepo-
                                                        sitions

                       LLM Evaluation           D       Affective Process, Cognitive Process, Perceptual         S43
                                                        Process, Informal language

                       Insider Threat Detec-    I       Categories Not Specified                                 S41
                       tion

 Stakeholder           User Input Analysis      D       Clout, Authentic, Analytic, Tone, Cognitive process,     S21
 Needs          and                                     Affective process, Drives
 Requirements
 Definition

                       User Input Analysis      I       Negative Emotion                                         S15,
                                                                                                                 S22,
                                                                                                                 S38, S40

 Design Definition     Design Bias Analysis     D       Personal Concerns (“persconc”), Social and Affect        S42
 Process




5.1.3. Notable Applications of LIWC
       Through answering RQ1, we also aim to better understand the types of
LIWC applications within the SE research. We pinned down the purposes

   3
       http://s3.amazonaws.com/mairesse/research/personality/recognizer.html



                                                        27
LIWC has fulfilled in each study. Here, in more detail, we discuss some
notable applications of LIWC in SE research.
   To predict the likelihood of a post’s deletion on Stack Overflow, re-
searchers have used LIWC to analyze its content. Given that many Stack
Overflow posts can be either off-topic or low quality (predominant reasons of
deletion [63]), the task of manually sifting through the posts and deleting such
content is laborious and time-consuming. Consequently, the development of
automatic methods for identifying posts that need to be deleted can offer
significant support to those responsible for monitoring the website’s content.
Correa & Sureka created a classification model trained on 47 features, some
of which were created using the textual contents of the posts. Within these
features were 11 LIWC categories such as Relativity, Cognitive, Inclusive, and
Social that were considered potentially distinctive for this task. Using these
features, a prediction model with 66% accuracy was developed. Additionally,
this study found new insights into the quality of the user-generated content
and characteristics of the deleted posts on Stack Overflow. This study was
later built upon and improved in another work where the 47 features were
reused in a different model to improve the prediction of Stack Overflow posts
that need to be deleted [S39].
   LIWC has also been used in the development of other psychometric tools.
In another work, Santos et al. present NEUROMINER, a psychometric tool
based on LIWC, that identifies developers’ preferred representational systems
[S25]. Representational systems refer to the ways in which the human brain
stores and processes information. Often within the NLP domain, these sys-
tems are recognized as Visual, Auditive, or Kinaesthetic [64]. Knowing the


                                      28
developers’ preferred representational systems can help us better understand
the most effective methods of communication and knowledge sharing. NEU-
ROMINER extracts LIWC values from an input text, and performs ANOVA
(analysis of variance) to detect the preferred representational systems of the
top four Apache committers. The authors use Visual, Auditive, and Kinaes-
thetic categories of LIWC to decide which of these representational models
a developer tends to prefer.
   Zolduoarrati et al. studied the impact of cultural differences in developer
communications with the help of LIWC. The authors conducted a study, ex-
amining Stack Overflow users’ behaviors across three distinct countries, char-
acterized by varying degrees of individualistic or collectivist values [S10]. The
culture of the selected countries i.e., the United States, China, and Russia,
exhibit different levels of individualism, as determined by Hofstede’s cul-
tural index [65]. The authors argue that understanding the cultural patterns
of users from these countries holds potential for improving communication
and cooperation in globally distributed software development efforts. To
accomplish this, the study leveraged LIWC categories, including Cognitive,
Emotional, and Leisure dimensions, to analyze the text written by the users
from these countries.
   Furthermore, researchers have used LIWC to examine the topic of trust
among developers in a collaborative team. Even though some studies on
this topic exist [26, 66, 67], few attempted to automatically measure trust
[68, 69]. Wang & Redmiles have, however, combined NRC Lexicon [70] and
some dimensions of LIWC related to trust to measure a baseline of trust
among developers [S4]. They did not specify the exact LIWC categories used;


                                       29
nevertheless, they evaluated their findings by calculating the baseline level
of trust with NLP methods based on the communications of 10 individuals
involved in their studied projects.
      Janjua et al.’s study addresses the growing challenge of insider threats in
information technology systems, where insiders can bypass security measures
and access confidential documents [S41]. In their work, they utilized the
content of email communications and the output from LIWC analysis to
train various machine learning models aimed at detecting insider threats.
      Also worth mentioning is Han et al.’s study on the cross-status commu-
nications of the developers in open source software development [S24]. In
their work, the authors use 12 LIWC categories to compute the similarities
of the language styles used by different groups of developers and explore the
possibility of a correlation between the project outcomes and the cross-status
communications between elite and the non-elite developers.
      Additionally, [S19] and [S8] examine LIWC’s ability to infer developers’
personalities and compare the tool with the now-discontinued LIWC-based
tool, IBM Personality Insights 4 . While [S19] finds the two tools to produce
consistent results, [S8] points out a noticeable level of disagreement between
LIWC and IBM Personality Insights.
      Finally, in attempting to analyze the opinions of the community in open
source software development, LIWC has been utilized to create the Argulens
framework [S11]. Argulens creators explore how usability discussions occur in
issue tracking systems, and how effective the machine learning models can be

  4
      https://watson-developer-cloud.github.io/node-sdk/master/classes/personalityinsightsv3.html




                                           30
in extracting arguments. They also discuss the potential of the framework to
support practitioners in understanding community opinions. LIWC’s output
is used alongside other features as an input to the machine learning classi-
fiers for tasks such as classifying the Argumentative vs. Non-argumentative
conversations.
 RQ1 Summary: LIWC has been directly and indirectly utilized in a
 variety of SE tasks to understand the nuances of developer learning, col-
 laboration, and communication. The most common uses include person-
 ality detection and emotion analysis. Other applications include quality
 assessment of forum posts, investigation of cultural differences in dis-
 tributed teams, and argument extraction.

5.2. RQ2: What types of textual data were analyzed using LIWC in SE stud-
    ies?
   To categorize the software engineering texts analyzed with LIWC, we
identified the types of developer communication used in each study. Table
6 shows the data types and sources of datasets used in the 43 papers we
examined.
   Most researchers focused on analyzing the communications of developers
on project management platforms, i.e., IBM Rational Jazz, GitHub, and Jira.
In 10 of the 43 studies, IBM Rational Jazz was used as the primary source
of data. In addition to hosting developers’ communications, IBM Rational
Jazz provides environments for both development and tracking the progress
of the project. These 10 papers use LIWC to study developers’ comments
in Jazz repositories over time, and to explore various aspects of developer
interactions and social dynamics, including the impact of leadership and

                                    31
                              Table 6: Data Types and Sources
Data Type                         Sources                                 Studies
Interactions on project manage-   IBM rational jazz                       S2, S17, S26, S29, S31, S32, S33,
ment platforms                                                            S34, S36, S37
                                  GitHub issues                           S4, S7, S9, S11, S14, S19, S24,
                                                                          S28


                                  GitHub pull requests                    S7, S9, S19, S24, S28


                                  GitHub code reviews                     S7, S24, , S9, S19


                                  Jira issues                             S12, S13


                                  GitHub discussions                      S4
Q&A                               Stack Overflow                          S1, S3, S5, S10, S20, S23, S35,
                                                                          S39


                                  Kaggle forums                           S6


                                  ChatGPT         answers    to   Stack   S43
                                  Overflow questions


                                  Specific software product fo-           S21
                                  rums (VLC, Zotero, etc.)
Email Communications              Apache    Software        Foundation    S4, S8, S16, S25, S27
                                  mailing lists
                                  Malicious users’ interactions           S41
User Feedback                     App Reviews                             S15, S22, S38, S40
Chats                             IRC                                     S4


                                  Controlled Studies                      S18
Microblogs                        OfficeTalk software (developed          S30
                                  exclusively for internal use in
                                  Microsoft)
Written Solutions to Design       Conducted Experiments                   S42
Tasks




                                                   32
knowledge sharing on project success [S26, S31]. Figure 2 provides a visual
overview of the distribution of data sources across the studies we reviewed.




Figure 2: Distribution of Data Sources Used in SE Studies Employing LIWC. The figure
highlights the prevalence of project management platforms and Q&A forums as dominant
sources of analyzed text.


    Q&As are another type of commonly used data that is analyzed with the
help of LIWC. Of the 11 studies that have focused on Q&A forums [S6, S21],
the most popular Q&A platform, Stack Overflow, has been used in 8 different
studies. While some studies using Stack Overflow data focus on personality
detection [S20, S23, S35], other studies use the data to identify low quality
posts [S1, S39], different attitudes of developers based on their cultural back-
ground [S10], developer sentiment [S3], and in one case, exploring differences
in the attitudes of male and female developers [S5]. Additionally, one study
used Stack Overflow questions as prompt for ChatGPT, in order to compare

                                        33
the LLM-generated answers to those provided by users [S43].
   The Apache Software Foundation (ASF) mailing lists have also served as
data sources for a number of studies. ASF mandates that projects must main-
tain full transparency in their communications through public mailing lists,
following the commonly held principle that, if it wasn’t documented on the
mailing lists, it didn’t happen [71, 72]. By requiring all the developer com-
munications to take place on mailing lists, ASF creates a valuable source of
data for those interested in analyzing the interactions of many ASF projects’
team members. Such analyses were used to study the trust dynamics among
the developers, developers’ behaviors, and developers’ persoanlities [S4, S8,
S27].
   Four studies used LIWC to analyze app reviews [S15, S22, S38, S40]. All
4 of these studies used LIWC specifically to identify the words associated
with the negative emotions according to LIWC’s lexicon. The findings were
then combined with other observations and data points extracted from the
reviews. Authors of these 4 papers use the findings to suggest prioritizing
the improvement of certain app features over others, draw conclusions about
user satisfaction with an app, etc.
   Notably, a few studies used LIWC to analyze software engineering chats
and microblogs [S4, S18, S30]. Given the prevalence of developers’ emotional
expressions in chats [27, 4, 73], exploring various emotional and psychological
factors through developers’ chat communications may yield novel insights
into the human factors affecting the development process.




                                      34
  RQ2 Summary: The most frequent data sources include project man-
  agement platforms (e.g., GitHub) and Q&A forums (e.g., Stack Over-
  flow). Other data sources include mailing lists, app reviews, and devel-
  oper chats. This diverse set of data sources highlights LIWC’s flexibility
  in processing different forms of communication in the SE domain.


5.3. RQ3: What Behavioral Software Engineering (BSE) concepts were stud-
     ied using LIWC?

   Behavioral Software Engineering (BSE) is defined as “the study of cog-
nitive, behavioral and social aspects of software engineering performed by
individuals, groups or organizations.”[33]. BSE combines social sciences and
empirical software engineering to gain insight into human factors in software
engineering [29, 33, 74]. Through their work, including studying psychol-
ogy textbooks, examining related papers, and interviews with field experts,
Lenberg et al. identified 55 core concepts underpinning BSE research, such
as Group Norms, Organizational Climate, and Leadership [33].
   Understanding how LIWC has been used to study BSE concepts reveals
the tool’s effectiveness in capturing critical human factors that directly influ-
ence software engineering practices and outcomes. Answering this research
question contributes to assessing LIWC’s role in advancing behavioral re-
search within SE. Next we discuss in detail the studied behavioral software
engineering concepts using LIWC in our 43 selected studies.
   To find out whether or not LIWC has been used to conduct software
engineering-related studies tackling different BSE concepts, we have identi-
fied all the BSE concepts studied in each of our selected studies. Table 7


                                       35
illustrates the definitions of the BSE concepts that have been borrowed from
[33] and identified in one or more of our selected 43 studies.

                                 Table 7: BSE Concepts found in our study


 BSE Concept          Definition                                                             Studies
 Communication        “The process that allows people to exchange information, feeling       All selected stud-
                      or thoughts ” [33, 75]                                                 ies
 Organizational       “Is defined as the recurring patterns of behavior, attitudes and       S4, S5, S7, S12,
 Climate              feelings that characterize life in the organization (Isaksen et al.,   S14,   S24,     S27,
                      2007; Denison, 1996).” [33, 76, 77]                                    S28,   S29,     S30,
                                                                                             S31,   S32,     S33,
                                                                                             S34, S36, S37
 Motivation           “According to Pardee (Pardee, 1990) motivation can be defined          S7, S9, S12, S17,
                      as those forces within an individual that push or propel him to        S21,   S22,     S26,
                      satisfy basic needs. It is what prompts a person to act in a cer-      S31,   S33,     S36,
                      tain way or at least develop an inclination for specific behavior.”    S37, S38, S40
                      [33, 32]
 Positive      psy-   “Positive psychology is the branch of psychology that study the        [S3,   S17,     S18,
 chology              strengths and virtues that enable individuals and communities          S23,   S26,     S27,
                      to thrive (Seligman and Csikszentmihalyi, 2000).” [33, 78]             S28,   S29,     S30,
                                                                                             S31,   S33,     S35,
                                                                                             S37
 Personality          “According to Feist and Feist (Feist, 1994) personality is a pat-      S2, S7, S8, S17,
                      tern of relatively permanent traits and unique characteristics         S19,   S20,     S27,
                      that give both consistency and individuality to a person’s be-         S35, S37
                      havior.” [33, 79]
 Leadership           “Is the art of influencing followers to achieve success by iden-       S9, S18, S27, S29,
                      tifying joint goals, finding best-fit roles in teams, collaborating    S24, S31
                      constructively and dynamically, and adapting to change within
                      their environments (Wikipedia, 2014).” [33, 80]
 Group dynam-         “Is a system of behaviors and psychological processes that oc-         S2, S4, S6, S10,
 ics                  curs within a group or between groups (Forsyth, 2009).” [33, 81]       S11, S24, S28
 Group norms          “Are informal rules that regulates the behavior of the group           S5, S6, S24, S36
                      (Feldman, 1984).” [33, 82]
 Cognitive style      “Individual differences regarding strategies for perceiving, re-       S16, S25
                      membering, thinking, and problem solving” [33, 83]
                                            Continued on next page



                                                      36
                                    Table 7 – Continued from previous page
 BSE Concept           Definition                                                          Studies
 Intentions      to    “Refers to conscious and deliberate willfulness to leave the or-    S27
 leave                 ganization (Tett and Meyer, 1993).” [33, 84]
 Organizational        “Is both the process in which an organization changes and the       S27
 Change                effects of these changes on the organization (Portal, 2014). ”
                       [33, 85]
 Group        social   “Defined by Hogg and Vaughan as an self-concept derived from        S10
 identity              perceived membership of social groups, i.e., the aspects of a
                       person that are defined in terms of his or her group memberships
                       (Hogg and Vaughan, 2002).” [33, 86]
 Risk taking           “Is the tendency to engage in potential harmful behavior that,      S41
                       at the same time, could have some kind of positive outcome
                       (March and Shapira, 1987).” [33, 87]
 Stress                “Defined by the American Psychological Association as a tran-       S14
                       sient state of arousal with typically clear onset and offset pat-
                       terns” [33, 88]



    Communication, in particular stands out as the single most studied BSE
concept as the researchers employing LIWC consistently analyze various
forms of textual communication, whether among developers themselves or
between other stakeholders and developers, as a means of discovering new
information.
    Organizational Climate, Motivation, Positive Psychology, and Personality
represent the most extensively explored concepts within the collected body
of literature. Among our subjects of study, the least commonly studied BSE
concepts were Risk taking, Stress, and Group Dynamics.
    In line with Lenberg et al.’s results, indicating Communication and Per-
sonality to be among the most studied BSE concepts, we found both of these
concepts to be frequently examined in papers employing LIWC in software
engineering. However, contrary to the observations by Lenberg et al., we


                                                      37
found that Organizational Climate and Positive Psychology also to be fre-
quently examined and studied in a number of papers. Figure 3 illustrates
the most commonly studied BSE concepts in our selected literature.




Figure 3: Most Common BSE Concepts Studied in Software Engineering Literature Using
LIWC.


   While some BSE concepts, such as sentiment or emotion, have long been
studied using a range of automated tools, others like Organizational Cli-
mate have traditionally relied on qualitative methods, such as interviews or
surveys, due to their abstract and contextual nature. However, LIWC has
enabled researchers to examine these social concepts in a more scalable and
automated fashion through text analysis. This may help explain why Organi-
zational Climate appears more frequently in our set of studies than reported

                                        38
in earlier BSE reviews [89]. Similarly, BSE and social concepts like Stress
and trust, which might otherwise be difficult to quantify or observe without
self-reporting, become more accessible through LIWC’s built-in stress-related
categories. In this way, LIWC lowers the barrier to analyzing many complex
psychological or social phenomena in SE, helping to expand the reach of BSE
research.
  RQ3 Summary: We present all the BSE concepts studied with the use
  of LIWC in Table 7. The most commonly examined concepts include
  Communication, Motivation, Organizational Climate, Positive Psychol-
  ogy, and Personality, while concepts such as Risk Taking, Stress, and
  Group Dynamics, are less commonly studied.

5.4. RQ4: How often and in what way has LIWC been evaluated in a software
     engineering context?
   Like any automated analysis tool, LIWC must be evaluated in order for
us to determine its effectiveness within the context of SE studies. In the
context of our review, evaluation refers to any effort by SE researchers to
assess the effectiveness or reliability of LIWC in their studies. Such evalua-
tions could involve expert assessments, for example, a psychologist reviewing
whether LIWC is accurately capturing relevant psycholinguistic signals, or
comparisons between LIWC output and established ground truth data. To
answer RQ4, we identify and categorize the various ways in which software
engineering researchers have evaluated the efficacy of LIWC in their studies.
   A notable observation among the papers that used LIWC is that the ma-
jority, specifically 26 of 43 papers, did not formally evaluate LIWC’s output
(see Table 8 and figure 4). These papers relied on LIWC for various purposes

                                     39
  Table 8: List of Papers With and Without Evaluation methods for LIWC’s Output
 Evaluation Method                          Papers
 No Evaluation                              S2, S5, S6, S7, S10, S11, S16, S17, S18, S20, S21,
                                            S22, S23, S24, S26, S28, S31, S32, S33, S34, S35,
                                            S36, S40, S41, S42, S43
 Indirect Evaluation                        S1, S3, S4, S8, S12, S13, S14, S15, S19, S25, S27,
                                            S29, S30, S37, S38, S39
 Comparison with Other Models               S9



and accepted the resulting psychometric measures without any evaluation.
In these studies, LIWC’s output was either used for qualitatively analyzing
the text or was combined with other data to facilitate subsequent analysis.
Some of these studies have used the combination of LIWC’s output and other
data points to train machine learning models for tasks such as the prediction
of the low quality Stack Overflow posts [S1, S39] or the identification of dif-
ferent arguments within a discussion i.e, argument extraction [S11]. These
papers mainly justified their decision based on the established reputation of
LIWC as a widely recognized and reliable psychometric text analysis tool,
cited by thousands of studies [22].
    Sixteen of the papers evaluated LIWC indirectly, meaning that instead
of evaluating the output of LIWC itself, they assessed the tools or models
built using LIWC as part of their feature sets. These evaluations often fo-
cused on the performance of the models or tools, sometimes incorporating
ground-truth data, such as personality questionnaires, to measure accuracy
or effectiveness. For example, some studies used LIWC’s categories in ma-
chine learning models for tasks like predicting low-quality Stack Overflow
posts [S1, S39] or extracting arguments from discussions [S11]. [S38] also



                                       40
  Figure 4: Distribution of evaluation strategies used in SE studies employing LIWC.


combined LIWC’s negative words with other lexicons to create a tool that
detects ’expectation violations’ in mobile app reviews, yielding an accuracy
of 96% on a manually labeled subset of 400 data points. In these studies,
the focus was on evaluating the overall performance of the models or tools
rather than directly assessing LIWC’s individual output.
   One study, [S9], performed a comparison of LIWC’s sentiment analysis
performance with another model, NLTK VADER, and found them to be per-
form comparably. However, this was not a formal evaluation of LIWC itself,
as it simply compared the performance between the two tools without directly
assessing LIWC’s internal accuracy or outputs in isolation. Despite this, we
still wanted to distinguish it as a valuable comparison for understanding how
LIWC performs relative to other sentiment analysis tools.
   Although LIWC has established a strong reputation and is widely used
in the scientific community, there remains a need for more formal evaluations
of its effectiveness within the software engineering context. While LIWC’s


                                         41
psychometric measures are often trusted without direct evaluation, formally
assessing its accuracy and applicability within SE research would benefit the
community. However, this is not always a straightforward task. Evaluating
LIWC in tasks like sentiment analysis may be relatively simple, but assessing
its measures of psychological concepts, such as personality or emotions, is
more complex and requires validation through psychological instruments like
specific questionnaires or personality tests. So far, no significant effort has
been made to evaluate LIWC directly within software engineering, leaving a
gap for future research to address.

  RQ4 Summary: Out of the 43 papers reviewed, 26 did not conduct
  a formal evaluation of LIWC’s output, relying instead on its established
  reputation in the scientific community. Of the remaining 17 papers, most
  assessed LIWC indirectly by evaluating models or tools that incorporated
  LIWC’s outputs, often using ground-truth data.


5.5. RQ5: What concerns or limitations were mentioned by the researchers
     adopting LIWC in the software engineering domain?

   To answer this RQ, we have outlined all the concerns or limitations ex-
pressed in the 43 papers we studied. Table 9 presents an overview of how
these studies have either acknowledged or overlooked the limitations associ-
ated with the use of LIWC. 29 out of the 43 papers refrain to acknowledge
potential limitations of using LIWC. In 14 studies, the authors acknowledge
the conceivable limitations of LIWC, delving deeper into the issues or offer-
ing potential solutions to mitigate the problems to varying degrees. Some
of these studies offer detailed explanations of the concerns pertaining to the


                                      42
       Table 9: LIWC-related Limitations and/or Concerns Expressed in the Selected Studies
 Limitation of LIWC                                                   Studies
 No concern or limitation expressed                                   S1, S3, S4, S5, S6, S8, S11, S12,
                                                                      S13 S14, S15, S16, S18, S20,
                                                                      S22, S23, S24, S25, S28, S30,
                                                                      S33, S35, S36, S37, S39, S40,
                                                                      S41, S42, S43
 Domain specificity (e.g., lack or misrepresentation of SE words)     S2, S10, S19, S26, S27, S31,
                                                                      S32, S34, S38
 Language limitation (e.g., English lexicon)                          S7
 Bias against non-native speakers                                     S27
 Lack of qualitative analysis                                         S21
 Limited sentiment analysis capabilities on informal communications   S9
 Inability to account for negation                                    S29



adoption of LIWC. We find that these concerns are either inherent limita-
tions of lexicon-based tools or otherwise, related to the application of LIWC
to software engineering. Next, we discuss both types of concerns.

5.5.1. Concerns with LIWC’s inherent limitations as a lexicon-based tool
    Much like any other lexicon-based tool, the use of LIWC comes with its
own set of limitations. Some of these limitations are inherent and often bound
by its technical constraints, such as the inability to account for negation or
understanding the context in a discussion [S29]. For instance, according to
LIWC, the sentence “This is not good” contains positive emotion, since the
word “good” is associated with positive emotion in LIWC’s dictionary.
    Another notable limitation of LIWC is its limited availability of dictionary
languages, as highlighted by Rigby et al. [S27]. While LIWC2015 includes
a German dictionary as its sole non-English option, it’s worth noting that
individuals have voluntarily undertaken the considerable task of translating


                                                  43
the English LIWC dictionaries (2001, 2007, and 2015 versions) into languages
such as simplified and traditional Chinese, Spanish, Italian, Russian, etc.
These translated dictionaries are accessible to paid users on LIWC’s official
website5 . The limited number of translated dictionaries may be attributed to
the substantial effort required for translation, thus explaining their scarcity.
Another language-related limitation of LIWC concerns text written by non-
native speakers. Non-native speakers often use a more restricted vocabulary
in their communications, potentially influencing the outcomes generated by
LIWC [S7].
      A potential concern with psycholinguistic tools is that authors might
intentionally manipulate their language to influence the analysis. However,
this is largely irrelevant in SE contexts, where communications, such as those
on GitHub, are organic and not written with the expectation of being psy-
cholinguistically analyzed [S7]. As such, we do not consider this a meaningful
limitation for our review.
      Overall, while the criticisms aimed at LIWC’s inherent constraints are
valid, as it stands, LIWC has been capable of drawing many conclusions from
different general-purpose texts successfully [22]. Additionally, as highlighted
in the past studies [S29], in practice, when analyzing large corpora of text,
the sheer abundance of the data can compensate, to a certain extent, for
some of the LIWC’s shortcomings. Therefore, in order to improve LIWC’s
performance for software engineering-specific text we might need to turn our
attention to the concerns regarding the adoption of this tool in the software

  5
      https://www.liwc.app/dictionaries




                                          44
engineering domain.

5.5.2. Concerns with LIWC’s adoption in SE
   Many studies acknowledge the limitations of adopting LIWC in a soft-
ware engineering context. Previous research that has identified numerous
correlations between various LIWC categories and a wide range of social and
psychological phenomena has primarily focused on general text [22]. Given
the complexities associated with the transition of psychometric tools to other
fileds [29], care should be taken when adopting tools such as LIWC in Soft-
ware Engineering studies.
   LIWC, may miss many of the words used in particular domains such
as software engineering, since domain specific words may be absent from its
dictionaries. LIWC’s output is as good as its dictionaries and therefore, if
the dictionary misses many of the words present in the text, the reliability of
LIWC’s output can be severely questioned. It has been observed that some
older versions of LIWC can only capture around 66% of the words in software
engineering text, discarding words such as API, XML, URI, and HTTP [S2,
S31, S34, S28]. However, it is worth mentioning that LIWC’s developers,
have been extending its dictionaries on each new release and although the
size of a dictionary will always remain limited, LIWC-22 has the largest
LIWC dictionary yet, with a size of over 12000 lexicons.
   The misrepresentation of domain-specific words can also limit the use of
LIWC in software engineering research. In many cases, the performance of
the tool can be questioned since certain words can have different meanings in
particular contexts compared to general text. Certain software engineering-
specific terms like “bug”, “kill”, or “cookie” may not be accurately repre-

                                      45
sented in a LIWC dictionary. For instance, the term “cookie,” appears in
the food category of the LIWC-22 dictionary. However, in the context of
software development, “cookie” typically refers to a type of data transmitted
by a website to a user’s web browser.
   Additionally, it can be argued that, so far the assessment of LIWC’s di-
rect interpretability for psychological concepts and human factors has been
mostly limited to general text. Therefore, to genuinely assess the tool’s reli-
ability for domain-specific text, it is imperative to replicate studies exploring
the correlations between LIWC’s output and psychological concepts using
software engineering text such as, developers’ mailing lists and code reviews.
Such an approach could help mitigate the performance loss in tasks, such as
personality detection, that involve understanding domain-specific communi-
cation nuances [S19].
   Although our review primarily focused on concerns focused on LIWC’s
use in software engineering, some studies have also noted broader ethical con-
siderations when employing psychometric tools in this domain. For example,
S19 acknowledges concerns regarding the use of personality detection tech-
niques in SE research. While such concerns are not specific to LIWC itself,
the use of automated psycholinguistic tools can raise important questions
around privacy, consent, and the interpretation of psychological inferences.
We acknowledge the importance of these issues and note that researchers
should exercise care when applying such tools to sensitive or personal as-
pects of developer behavior.




                                       46
 RQ5 Summary: We identify two types of concerns with the use of
 LIWC in SE: (a) inherent limitations due to its lexicon-based nature (e.g.,
 lack of negation handling, limited language support), and (b) concerns
 with domain adoption (e.g., absence and potential misrepresentation of
 SE-specific words).


6. Discussion

   Overall, our review indicates that LIWC has been successfully applied
across a broad spectrum of SE tasks involving human factors, such as analyz-
ing team dynamics, detecting emotions, and investigating various BSE con-
cepts (e.g., leadership and personality). Studies have also demonstrated how
some psycholinguistic frameworks from other domains that leverage LIWC
can be adopted in SE studies, enriching SE research. However, several weak-
nesses were identified as well. Most notably, few papers rigorously evaluated
the validity of LIWC’s outputs for their specific SE contexts; many appeared
to assume that the tool’s general reliability would naturally extend to SE
text. Furthermore, our findings show that no effort has been made to develop
SE-specific dictionaries, which could address domain-related limitations and
improve LIWC’s interpretability for SE-specific text. As a result, more vali-
dation efforts are needed to ensure that LIWC’s psychological categories can
accurately assess SE text. In the remainder of this section, we explore some
possibilities for improving and utilizing LIWC in novel ways for software
engineering research.




                                     47
6.1. Software engineering specific dictionaries

   As detailed in Section 5.5.1 certain concerns associated with LIWC are
inherent in any lexicon-based approach while others are the result of adopting
the tool in a new field. Among the latter concerns, the issue often brought
up in the literature is the domain specificity of software engineering text
and LIWC’s limitations in capturing the text’s context. The answer to this
problem may lie in the creation of software-specific LIWC dictionaries which
can prove to be a huge step forward toward a better understanding of de-
velopers and their unique linguistic patterns. While creating any LIWC
dictionary demands a notable investment of time and effort, once created,
it can present new opportunities for those studying developers’ communi-
cations. Such dictionaries can be specific to particular settings in order to
capture the language patterns in certain situations. For example, researchers
interested in investigating the levels of stress and anxiety among developers
could develop a custom dictionary that reflects the language use of develop-
ers in high-pressure situations. Furthermore, custom dictionaries could be
defined with specific software engineering constructs, such as Team Manage-
ment or Quality Assurance, in mind to more accurately capture the language
patterns and psychological markers relevant to each activity. For example,
dictionaries designed around team coordination could emphasize constructs
like leadership, trust, or conflict resolution, enhancing the interpretability of
LIWC’s output in those contexts. Overall, LIWC possesses the potential to
significantly improve our understanding of the text written by developers and
therefore, addressing some of LIWC’s limitations can prove to be invaluable.




                                       48
6.2. Leveraging more LIWC categories for direct analysis of the text

   Another way to improve the usability of LIWC is to take advantage of
all its categories for direct analytical purposes. LIWC presents an expansive
set of word categories. However, commonly, studies select specific categories,
tailored to the needs of their particular analytical objectives, for close ex-
amination. As evident in Table 1, our findings point to the diversity of
LIWC categories that have been utilized to serve different research purposes
in software engineering studies. Yet, even though many software engineering
studies have leveraged several of LIWC’s capabilities, we still believe that
the program holds untapped potential for conducting further text analysis
through direct interpretation of its categories. Consider the category of “as-
sent”, known to correlate with agreement and passivity [22]. Understanding
assent can potentially help us in studying team conflicts, or analyzing discus-
sions involving critical decision-making, such as tool adoption. Despite its
potential relevance, this category has yet to be employed in order to assess
agreement levels within developer conversations.

6.3. LIWC and Large Language Models

   With the rise of Large Language Models (LLM), researchers and practi-
tioners are increasingly leveraging advanced machine learning-based methods
to analyze text. However, unlike LIWC, LLMs operate as black-box models,
making their decision-making processes difficult to interpret. While LLMs
excel in generating human-like text and handling various NLP tasks, they
often lack transparency when it comes to understanding how specific psy-
chological or emotional dimensions in text are being analyzed. In contrast,



                                      49
LIWC offers a well-established, interpretable framework for extracting psy-
cholinguistic insights, using predefined categories backed by years of valida-
tion in psychological research [22]. This allows for clear, consistent analysis
of psychological aspects in text, providing insights that are more directly in-
terpretable and reliable for examining human factors in software engineering.
   To overcome the interpretability challenges posed by black-box models,
one promising approach involves integrating LIWC to enhance their ability
to analyze text. As highlighted in our response to RQ1, LIWC categories
have already been utilized as input in various machine learning models, often
in combination with other features such as metadata from sources like Stack
Overflow posts or GitHub repositories. By leveraging LIWC’s psychologically
grounded insights, deep learning models could be enriched with valuable
context that improves their ability to capture nuanced human emotions and
cognitive states.
   To overcome the interpretability challenges posed by black-box models,
one promising approach involves integrating LIWC to enhance their ability to
analyze text. As highlighted in our response to RQ1, LIWC categories have
already been utilized as input in various machine learning models, often in
combination with other features such as metadata from sources like Stack
Overflow posts or GitHub repositories. LIWC features could even be incor-
porated into ensemble classifiers to improve performance across SE-related
prediction tasks. By leveraging LIWC’s psychologically grounded insights,
deep learning models could also be enriched with valuable context that im-
proves their ability to capture nuanced human emotions and cognitive states.
Given the challenges in interpretability that many deep learning models face


                                      50
[90], this hybrid approach offers a promising direction for future research and
application.
   Additionally, there is considerable room for analyzing LLM-generated
content with the help of LIWC. Beyond evaluating the content of ChatGPT-
generated responses, Kabir et al. analyzed the linguistic characteristics of
such content generated in response to Stack Overflow questions and com-
pared them to those written by humans [S43]. Their findings revealed that
LLM-generated content tends to be more formal, analytic, and positive in
language. These distinctions also suggest the potential for using LIWC to
help differentiate between human- and LLM-authored text in software en-
gineering artifacts. This kind of analysis can be extended to explore the
linguistic features of different LLMs in various scenarios and conversations
in software contexts. For instance, it would be insightful to determine what
type of language is most effective in prompting an LLM when trying to
perform programming tasks or address GitHub issues in a repository. Fur-
thermore, it would be valuable to study how LLMs navigate conversations
based on specific linguistic cues, whether they adjust their style in certain
contexts, and how these adjustments impact the usefulness of their responses.
   Moreover, LLMs are susceptible to inherent biases in the text they gen-
erate, largely due to the vast, unfiltered datasets on which they are trained.
LIWC can be instrumental in identifying such biases by analyzing language
patterns in LLM-generated texts, particularly for sensitive categories related
to gender, emotions, or ethnicity. For example, studies outside the software
engineering domain have demonstrated gender differences in how LLMs repli-
cate lexical, psychological, and social traits [91]. Applying these analyses to


                                      51
software engineering could reveal whether biases related to developers’ iden-
tities emerge in LLM-generated responses in software engineering contexts
e.g., addressing programming issues or performing tasks such as bug fixes or
vulnerability detection. This could lead to important insights on how LLMs
contribute to or mitigate biases in collaborative development environments.


7. New Research Opportunities Leveraging LIWC

   LIWC offers exciting new possibilities that have not yet been extensively
explored. Beyond the applications that we listed in Table 5, LIWC can be
leveraged for several other tasks, such as: (a) evaluating the quality and effec-
tiveness of code comments, by analyzing linguistic features to identify help-
ful and informative comments; (b) predicting project outcomes, like delays
or success, by analyzing linguistic patterns in communications; (c) identi-
fying developer burnout, by monitoring developer communication in project
management tools and version control systems to detect signs of burnout or
emotional stress among team members using categories such as Stress, Social
processes, Assent, etc.; (d) enhancing software documentation, by identifying
areas of improvements such as readability or ambiguity; and (e) improving
product or app reviews, by detecting linguistic patterns that reflect user sat-
isfaction or indicate areas for improvement. Additionally, similar to the work
by Janjua et al. [S41], LIWC can also be used to further our understand-
ing of social engineering-based attacks in software projects by analyzing the
communications between attackers and project members. While [S41] used
LIWC categories as feature sets for models, a more direct linguistic analy-
sis—focusing on the specific language patterns employed by attackers—can


                                       52
offer deeper insights into the behaviors and strategies behind social engineer-
ing attacks. This approach could help identify linguistic markers of manipu-
lation, persuasion, and trust-building tactics in the context of these attacks.
   Finally, beyond the immediate applications listed above, future studies
can leverage LIWC in multiple ways to further strengthen behavioral software
engineering research. For instance, developing custom SE-specific dictionar-
ies around targeted psychological constructs or BSE concepts (see Section
6.1) could provide more precise insights into team dynamics or leadership
behaviors. Researchers might also explore underutilized LIWC categories
(as discussed in Section 6.2) to capture new dimensions of developer com-
munication that have not yet been investigated. Likewise, combining LIWC
with deep learning or language models (Section 6.3) may yield both improved
classification performance and more interpretable results in tasks such as de-
veloper sentiment analysis or automated code review. By expanding these
efforts, the community can continue pushing the boundaries of LIWC’s util-
ity, creating a deeper, more contextualized understanding of human factors
in software engineering.


8. Threats to Validity

   Construct Validity: Papers retrieved from online libraries were man-
ually filtered to select those pertinent to this study. While this method is
susceptible to human error, we adopted a two-step process: one author con-
ducted the primary selection, while another independently verified the final
list. Although this adds a layer of validation, it does not fully replicate hav-
ing two authors review every paper, and some risk of missing relevant studies


                                      53
remains. In terms of our search query, a potential threat to validity is the
assumption that the naming conventions for LIWC are consistent across all
relevant literature, which may overlook studies using alternate terminology.
We mitigated this threat by explicitly checking for alternate naming con-
ventions during our literature review but found none in the relevant studies
across software engineering, psychology, and communication domains. In
addition to assessing the title and abstract, we thoroughly review the entire
paper before determining its inclusion in our study. This approach ensures
the precision and relevance of our paper selection. To further mitigate bias,
two authors were involved in the data extraction and coding phases of the
study. We followed an iterative discussion and coding procedure until we
reached substantial agreement for each category (above 0.6).
   Internal Validity: The internal operations of the online libraries we
utilized in our study are undisclosed. Their methods of indexing studies
and responding to search queries are not publicly available. Therefore it is
possible, that this search process has potentially resulted in the omission of
relevant studies. However, to mitigate this threat, we have collected relevant
papers from six prominent and widely recognized online digital libraries, i.e.,
IEEE Xplore Digital Library, ACM Digital Library, Elsevier Science Direct,
Springer Link Online Library, Wiley Online Library, and Scopus.
   External Validity: In order to narrow down the survey to relevant pa-
pers, we implemented stringent inclusion and exclusion criteria. This led to
our focus on papers written in English and accessible through one of our six
chosen databases. However, this approach may have missed some papers,
potentially affecting the study’s generalizability. To mitigate this risk, we


                                      54
designed our search string to be as inclusive as possible, deliberately intro-
ducing more noise into our initial results. We later performed a meticulous
manual analysis to eliminate irrelevant entries. This strategy aimed to en-
sure the inclusion of as many relevant papers as possible. Consequently, we
invested significant time in the manual inspection process, resulting in the
removal of over a thousand irrelevant papers.


9. Conclusion

   The primary objective of this paper is to investigate the role of LIWC, a
representative psycholinguistic tool widely recognized for its effectiveness in
analyzing language and psychological patterns, in the software engineering
research. Through this study, we aim to identify LIWC’s utility, outline its
limitations and potential in SE research and practice. The selection of the 43
papers took place through a systematic process, using specific inclusion and
exclusion criteria, as discussed Section 4. The findings from our five research
questions, as summarized next, can serve as a potential resource for future
work in the field, looking to utilize LIWC.
   In addressing our first research question, we underlined the diverse pur-
poses for which LIWC has been used within the software engineering domain.
Our findings reveal an almost even split between studies that directly inter-
pret LIWC’s various dimensions and those that employ it in an indirect man-
ner, often combined with other data or as input for machine learning models.
We also highlight how, throughout the years, the community has demon-
strated many unique methods of leveraging LIWC to address development-
related issues and enhance the software engineering process. Furthermore, we


                                      55
present the types of data and data sources that were utilized in our selected
studies, and leverage a taxonomy of software engineering activities adopted
from previous research, to identify the activities that were most frequently
studied using LIWC (e.g., Team Management and Knowledge Management).
Additionally, by adopting Behavioral Software Engineering (BSE) concepts,
we carefully annotated each paper based on the concepts it examined, offer-
ing a precise overview of the distribution of these studied concepts. This step
allowed us to identify the concepts that were frequently studiedusing LIWC,
as well as the ones that have received less attention or remained unexplored.
Next, to better understand the potential and limitation of LIWC in analyz-
ing domain-specific language used by software engineering practitioners, we
investigated the evaluation methods used by researchers. Surprisingly, we
discovered that a substantial portion of the papers neither directly evaluated
LIWC’s findings nor raised any concerns regarding its usage. Nonetheless, a
noteworthy number of papers do subject LIWC’s findings to different types
of evaluations. We also note that ethical considerations, such as privacy
and the potential for misinterpretation of psychometric inferences, are rarely
addressed.
   In summary, this study’s findings demonstrate LIWC’s unique ability to
capture linguistic patterns that enhance our understanding of the human
factors impacting software development and maintenance. While we believe
that more of LIWC’s capabilities remain to be explored, it is essential we
understand the limitations of using an off-the-shelf textual analysis tool for
SE-specific text. This study aims to shed light on the significance, appli-
cations, implications, and potential use of LIWC in software engineering


                                      56
research. We hope that the insights from this work will empower future
research to better recognize and leverage the possibilities offered by LIWC.


Appendix A. Selected Studies

   Below you can find a list of the studies used in this SLR:


   [S1] Correa, D. and Sureka, A. (2014) ‘Chaff from the wheat: characteri-
zation and modeling of deleted questions on stack overflow’, in Proceedings
of the 23rd international conference on World wide web. Seoul Korea: ACM,
pp. 631–642. doi: 10.1145/2566486.2568036.


   [S2] Licorish, S. A. and MacDonell, S. G. (2014a) ‘Personality profiles of
global software developers’, in Proceedings of the 18th International Confer-
ence on Evaluation and Assessment in Software Engineering. London Eng-
land United Kingdom: ACM, pp. 1–10. doi: 10.1145/2601248.2601265.


   [S3] Calefato, F. et al. (2018) ‘Sentiment Polarity Detection for Software
Development’, Empirical Software Engineering, 23(3), pp. 1352–1382. doi:
10.1007/s10664-017-9546-9.


   [S4] Wang, Y. and Redmiles, D. (2016) ‘The Diffusion of Trust and Coop-
eration in Teams with Individuals’ Variations on Baseline Trust’, in Proceed-
ings of the 19th ACM Conference on Computer-Supported Cooperative Work
& Social Computing. San Francisco California USA: ACM, pp. 303–318. doi:
10.1145/2818048.2820064.


                                     57
   [S5] Zolduoarrati, E. and Licorish, S. A. (2021) ‘On the value of encourag-
ing gender tolerance and inclusiveness in software engineering communities’,
Information and Software Technology, 139, p. 106667. doi: 10.1016/j.infsof.2021.106667.


   [S6] Maier, T., DeFranco, J. and Mccomb, C. (2019) ‘An analysis of
design process and performance in distributed data science teams’, Team
Performance Management: An International Journal, 25(7/8), pp. 419–439.
doi: 10.1108/TPM-03-2019-0024.


   [S7] Rastogi, A. and Nagappan, N. (2016) ‘On the Personality Traits
of GitHub Contributors’, in 2016 IEEE 27th International Symposium on
Software Reliability Engineering (ISSRE). Ottawa, ON, Canada: IEEE, pp.
77–86. doi: 10.1109/ISSRE.2016.43.


   [S8] Calefato, F. and Lanubile, F. (2022) ‘Using Personality Detection
Tools for Software Engineering Research: How Far Can We Go?’, ACM
Transactions on Software Engineering and Methodology, 31(3), pp. 1–48.
doi: 10.1145/3491039.


   [S9] Hergueux, J. and Kessler, S. (2022) ‘Follow the Leader: Technical
and Inspirational Leadership in Open Source Software’, in CHI Conference
on Human Factors in Computing Systems. New Orleans LA USA: ACM, pp.
1–15. doi: 10.1145/3491102.3517516.




                                     58
   [S10] Zolduoarrati, E., Licorish, S. A. and Stanger, N. (2022) ‘Impact of
individualism and collectivism cultural profiles on the behaviour of software
developers: A study of stack overflow’, Journal of Systems and Software, 192,
p. 111427. doi: 10.1016/j.jss.2022.111427.


   [S11] Wang, W. et al. (2020) ‘ArguLens: Anatomy of Community Opin-
ions On Usability Issues Using Argumentation Models’, in Proceedings of the
2020 CHI Conference on Human Factors in Computing Systems. Honolulu
HI USA: ACM, pp. 1–14. doi: 10.1145/3313831.3376218.


   [S12] Mantyla, M. V. et al. (2017) ‘Bootstrapping a Lexicon for Emo-
tional Arousal in Software Engineering’, in 2017 IEEE/ACM 14th Interna-
tional Conference on Mining Software Repositories (MSR). Buenos Aires:
IEEE, pp. 198–202. doi: 10.1109/MSR.2017.47.


   [S13] Gachechiladze, D. et al. (2017) ‘Anger and Its Direction in Col-
laborative Software Development’, in 2017 IEEE/ACM 39th International
Conference on Software Engineering: New Ideas and Emerging Technolo-
gies Results Track (ICSE-NIER). Buenos Aires: IEEE, pp. 11–14. doi:
10.1109/ICSE-NIER.2017.18.


   [S14] Raman, N. et al. (2020) ‘Stress and burnout in open source: toward
finding, understanding, and mitigating unhealthy interactions’, in Proceed-
ings of the ACM/IEEE 42nd International Conference on Software Engineer-
ing: New Ideas and Emerging Results. Seoul South Korea: ACM, pp. 57–60.


                                     59
doi: 10.1145/3377816.3381732.


   [S15] Keertipati, S., Savarimuthu, B. T. R. and Licorish, S. A. (2016) ‘Ap-
proaches for prioritizing feature improvements extracted from app reviews’,
in Proceedings of the 20th International Conference on Evaluation and As-
sessment in Software Engineering. Limerick Ireland: ACM, pp. 1–6. doi:
10.1145/2915970.2916003.


   [S16] Júnior, M. C., Mendonça, M., Farias, M. A. D. F., Henrique, P., &
Corumba, D. (2012). ‘A neurolinguistic method for identifying OSS devel-
opers’ context-specific preferred representational systems’. In Proceedings
of the Seventh International Conference on Software Engineering Advances.
Lisbon, Portugal: IEEE, pp. 18–23.


   [S17] Licorish, S. A. and MacDonell, S. G. (2018) ‘Exploring the links be-
tween software development task type, team attitudes and task completion
performance: Insights from the Jazz repository’, Information and Software
Technology, 97, pp. 10–25. doi: 10.1016/j.infsof.2017.12.005.


   [S18] Brooks, I. and Swigger, K. (2012) ‘Using sentiment analysis to mea-
sure the effects of leaders in global software development’, in 2012 Interna-
tional Conference on Collaboration Technologies and Systems (CTS). Denver,
CO, USA: IEEE, pp. 517–524. doi: 10.1109/CTS.2012.6261099.


   [S19] Van Mil, F. C. J., Rastogi, A. and Zaidman, A. (2021) ‘Promises and


                                     60
Perils of Inferring Personality on GitHub’, in Proceedings of the 15th ACM /
IEEE International Symposium on Empirical Software Engineering and Mea-
surement (ESEM). Bari Italy: ACM, pp. 1–11. doi: 10.1145/3475716.3475775.


   [S20] Bazelli, B., Hindle, A. and Stroulia, E. (2013) ‘On the Personality
Traits of StackOverflow Users’, in 2013 IEEE International Conference on
Software Maintenance. Eindhoven, Netherlands: IEEE, pp. 460–463. doi:
10.1109/ICSM.2013.72.


   [S21] Hellman, J. et al. (2022) ‘Characterizing user behaviors in open-
source software user forums: an empirical study’, in Proceedings of the 15th
International Conference on Cooperative and Human Aspects of Software En-
gineering. Pittsburgh Pennsylvania: ACM, pp. 46–55. doi: 10.1145/3528579.3529178.


   [S22] Licorish, S. A., Savarimuthu, B. T. R. and Keertipati, S. (2017) ‘At-
tributes that Predict which Features to Fix: Lessons for App Store Mining’,
in Proceedings of the 21st International Conference on Evaluation and As-
sessment in Software Engineering. Karlskrona Sweden: ACM, pp. 108–117.
doi: 10.1145/3084226.3084246.


   [S23] Papoutsoglou, M., Kapitsaki, G. M. and Angelis, L. (2020) ‘Mod-
eling the effect of the badges gamification mechanism on personality traits
of Stack Overflow users’, Simulation Modelling Practice and Theory, 105, p.
102157. doi: 10.1016/j.simpat.2020.102157.




                                     61
   [S24] Han, Y. et al. (2023) ‘Cross-status communication and project
outcomes in OSS development: A language style matching perspective’, Em-
pirical Software Engineering, 28(3), p. 78. doi: 10.1007/s10664-023-10298-8.


   [S25] Júnior, M. C. et al. (2021) ‘Industrial and OSS developers’ profiles:
a family of experiments to evaluate a pioneering neuro-linguistic method
for preferred representational systems automatic detection’, Journal of the
Brazilian Computer Society, 27(1), p. 4. doi: 10.1186/s13173-021-00107-9.


   [S26] Licorish, S. A. and MacDonell, S. G. (2014b) ‘Understanding the
attitudes, knowledge sharing behaviors and task performance of core devel-
opers: A longitudinal study’, Information and Software Technology, 56(12),
pp. 1578–1596. doi: 10.1016/j.infsof.2014.02.004.


   [S27] Rigby, P. C. and Hassan, A. E. (2007) ‘What Can OSS Mailing Lists
Tell Us? A Preliminary Psychometric Text Analysis of the Apache Developer
Mailing List’, in Fourth International Workshop on Mining Software Repos-
itories (MSR’07:ICSE Workshops 2007). Minneapolis, MN, USA: IEEE, pp.
23–23. doi: 10.1109/MSR.2007.35.


   [S28] Almarimi, N. et al. (2023) ‘Improving the detection of community
smells through socio-technical and sentiment analysis’, Journal of Software:
Evolution and Process, 35(6), p. e2505. doi: 10.1002/smr.2505.


   [S29] Licorish, S. A. and MacDonell, S. G. (2013b) ‘Differences in Jazz


                                      62
project leaders’ competencies and behaviors: A preliminary empirical inves-
tigation’, in 2013 6th International Workshop on Cooperative and Human
Aspects of Software Engineering (CHASE). San Francisco, CA, USA: IEEE,
pp. 1–8. doi: 10.1109/CHASE.2013.6614725.


   [S30] De Choudhury, M. and Counts, S. (2013) ‘Understanding affect in
the workplace via social media’, in Proceedings of the 2013 conference on
Computer supported cooperative work. San Antonio Texas USA: ACM, pp.
303–316. doi: 10.1145/2441776.2441812.


   [S31] Licorish, S. A. and MacDonell, S. G. (2013c) ‘The true role of ac-
tive communicators: an empirical study of Jazz core developers’, in Proceed-
ings of the 17th International Conference on Evaluation and Assessment in
Software Engineering. Porto de Galinhas Brazil: ACM, pp. 228–239. doi:
10.1145/2460999.2461034.


   [S32] Licorish, S. A. and MacDonell, S. G. (2013a) ‘Adopting softer ap-
proaches in the study of repository data: a comparative analysis’, in Pro-
ceedings of the 17th International Conference on Evaluation and Assessment
in Software Engineering. Porto de Galinhas Brazil: ACM, pp. 240–245. doi:
10.1145/2460999.2461035.


   [S33] Licorish, S. A. and Macdonell, S. G. (2014) ‘Combining Text Mining
and Visualization Techniques to Study Teams’ Behavioral Processes’, in 2014
IEEE 4th Workshop on Mining Unstructured Data. Victoria, BC, Canada:


                                    63
IEEE, pp. 16–20. doi: 10.1109/MUD.2014.10.


   [S34] Licorish, S. A. and MacDonell, S. G. (2013d) ‘What Can Devel-
opers’ Messages Tell Us? A Psycholinguistic Analysis of Jazz Teams’ Atti-
tudes and Behavior Patterns’, in 2013 22nd Australian Software Engineer-
ing Conference. Hawthorne, Victoria, Australia: IEEE, pp. 107–116. doi:
10.1109/ASWEC.2013.22.


   [S35] Papoutoglou, M., Kapitsaki, G. M. and Mittas, N. (2018) ‘Linking
Personality Traits and Interpersonal Skills to Gamification Awards’, in 2018
44th Euromicro Conference on Software Engineering and Advanced Applica-
tions (SEAA). Prague: IEEE, pp. 214–221. doi: 10.1109/SEAA.2018.00042.


   [S36] Licorish, S. A. and MacDonell, S. G. (2012) ‘What affects team be-
havior? Preliminary linguistic analysis of communications in the Jazz repos-
itory’, in. (2012 5th International Workshop on Co-operative and Human
Aspects of Software Engineering, CHASE 2012 - Proceedings), pp. 83–89.
doi: 10.1109/CHASE.2012.6223029.


   [S37] Licorish, S. A. and MacDonell, S. G. (2021) ‘Relating IS Developers’
Attitudes to Engagement’, in Proceedings of the 25th Australasian Confer-
ence on Information Systems (ACIS’14). 1–10.


   [S38] Patel, P. et al. (2016) ‘Studying Expectation Violations in Socio-
Technical Systems: a Case Study of the Mobile App Community’, in ECIS,


                                     64
p. ResearchPaper14.


   [S39] Xia, X. et al. (2016) ‘It takes two to tango: Deleted stack over-
flow question prediction with text and meta features’, in 2016 IEEE 40th
annual computer software and applications conference (COMPSAC). IEEE,
pp. 73–82.


   [40] Su’a, T. et al. (2017) ‘Quickreview: a novel data-driven mobile user
interface for reporting problematic app features’, in Proceedings of the 22nd
International Conference on Intelligent User Interfaces, pp. 517–522.


   [S41] Janjua, F., et al. (2020). ‘Handling insider threat through super-
vised machine learning techniques’. In Procedia Computer Science, 177, pp.
64–71. doi: 10.1016/j.procs.2020.10.012


   [S42] Salminen, J., et al. (2023). ‘How does an imaginary persona’s at-
tractiveness affect designers’ perceptions and IT solutions? An experimental
study on users’ remote working needs’. In Information Technology & People,
36(8), pp. 196–225. doi: 10.1108/ITP-09-2022-0729


   [S43] Kabir, S., Udo-Imeh, D. N., Kou, B., & Zhang, T. (2024). ‘Is Stack
Overflow obsolete? An empirical study of the characteristics of ChatGPT an-
swers to Stack Overflow questions’. In Proceedings of the CHI Conference on
Human Factors in Computing Systems, pp. 1–17. doi: 10.1145/3613904.3642596




                                     65
Appendix B. PRISMA 2020 Items

                      Table B.10: PRISMA 2020 Items with Reporting Locations


Checklist Item                                                               Location Reported

Title: Identify the report as a systematic review.                           Title

Abstract: See the PRISMA 2020 for Abstracts checklist.                       Abstract

Introduction – Rationale: Describe the rationale for the review in the       Section 1
context of existing knowledge.

Introduction – Objectives: Provide an explicit statement of the objectives   Section 1
or questions the review addresses.

Methods – Eligibility criteria: Specify inclusion and exclusion criteria     Section 4.2
and how studies were grouped.

Methods – Information sources: Specify all sources searched and date of      Sections 4.1 & 4.2
last search.

Methods – Search strategy: Present full search strategies for all sources.   Section 4

Methods – Selection process: Describe methods for deciding study inclu-      Section 4
sion and number of reviewers involved.

Methods – Data collection process: Specify methods used to collect           Section 4.3
data.

Methods – Data items (Outcomes): List and define all outcomes for            Section 4
which data were sought.

Methods – Data items (Other variables): List and define all other            N/A
variables for which data were sought.

Methods – Study risk of bias assessment: Methods used to assess risk         Section 4
of bias.

Methods – Effect measures: Effect measures used for each outcome.            N/A

Methods – Synthesis methods: Describe methods used to synthesize             Section 4
results and explore heterogeneity.

Methods – Reporting bias assessment: Describe methods used to assess         N/A
risk of bias due to missing results.

Results – Study selection: Describe results of search and selection.         Section 5




                                                 66
 Checklist Item                                                                  Location Reported

 Results – Excluded studies: Cite studies that may appear to meet inclu-         Replication Package
 sion criteria but were excluded.

 Results – Study characteristics: Cite each included study and present           Appendix A and Sec-
 characteristics.                                                                tion 5

 Results – Results of individual studies: Present summary statistics and         N/A
 effect estimates.

 Results – Results of syntheses: Present results of all statistical syntheses,   N/A
 including heterogeneity.

 Discussion – Summary of evidence: General interpretation of the results         Section 6
 in the context of other evidence.

 Discussion – Limitations of evidence: Discuss limitations of included           Section 6
 studies.

 Discussion – Limitations of review process: Discuss limitations of the          8
 review process.

 Discussion – Implications: Discuss implications for practice, policy, and       Section 6
 future research.

 Other – Availability of data: Report availability of data, code, and ma-        Section 4.3
 terials.




References

[1] B. Trinkenreich, I. Wiese, A. Sarma, M. Gerosa, I. Steinmacher,
      Women’s participation in open source software: A survey of the lit-
      erature, ACM Transactions on Software Engineering and Methodology
      (TOSEM) 31 (4) (2022) 1–37.

[2] N. Raman, M. Cao, Y. Tsvetkov, C. Kästner, B. Vasilescu, Stress and
      burnout in open source: Toward finding, understanding, and mitigating
      unhealthy interactions, in: Proceedings of the ACM/IEEE 42nd Inter-




                                                  67
   national Conference on Software Engineering: New Ideas and Emerging
   Results, 2020, pp. 57–60.

[3] G. Melnik, F. Maurer, Comparative analysis of job satisfaction in agile
   and non-agile software development teams, in: International conference
   on extreme programming and agile processes in software engineering,
   Springer, 2006, pp. 32–42.

[4] P. Chatterjee, K. Damevski, L. Pollock, V. Augustine, N. A. Kraft,
   Exploratory study of slack q&a chats as a mining source for software
   engineering tools, in: 2019 IEEE/ACM 16th International Conference
   on Mining Software Repositories (MSR), IEEE, 2019, pp. 490–501.

[5] V. Efstathiou, C. Chatzilenas, D. Spinellis, Word embeddings for the
   software engineering domain, in: Proceedings of the 15th International
   Conference on Mining Software Repositories, MSR ’18, Association for
   Computing Machinery, New York, NY, USA, 2018, p. 38–41. doi:10.
   1145/3196398.3196448.
   URL https://doi.org/10.1145/3196398.3196448

[6] S. Lyu, X. Ren, Y. Du, N. Zhao, Detecting depression of chinese mi-
   croblog users via text analysis: Combining linguistic inquiry word count
   (liwc) with culture and suicide related lexicons, Frontiers in psychiatry
   14 (2023) 1121583.

[7] C. M. Bell, P. M. McCarthy, D. S. McNamara, Variations in language use
   across gender: Biological versus sociological theories, in: Proceedings of
   the Annual Meeting of the Cognitive Science Society, Vol. 28, 2006.


                                    68
 [8] M. Neysari, G. Bodenmann, M. R. Mehl, K. Bernecker, F. W. Nussbeck,
    S. Backes, M. Zemp, M. Martin, A. B. Horn, Monitoring pronouns in
    conflicts, GeroPsych (2016).

 [9] R. A. Simmons, P. C. Gordon, D. L. Chambless, Pronouns in marital
    interaction: What do “you” and “i” say about marital health?, Psycho-
    logical science 16 (12) (2005) 932–936.

[10] K. S. Ziemer, G. Korkmaz, Using text to predict psychological and phys-
    ical health: A comparison of human raters and computerized text anal-
    ysis, Computers in Human Behavior 76 (2017) 122–127.

[11] R. Gulliver, K. S. Fielding, W. R. Louis, Assessing the mobilization
    potential of environmental advocacy communication, Journal of Envi-
    ronmental Psychology 74 (2021) 101563.

[12] Y. Oc, K. Plangger, S. Sands, C. L. Campbell, L. Pitt, Luxury is what
    you say: Analyzing electronic word-of-mouth marketing of luxury prod-
    ucts using artificial intelligence and machine learning, Psychology &
    Marketing (2023).

[13] B. Lin, N. Cassee, A. Serebrenik, G. Bavota, N. Novielli, M. Lanza,
    Opinion mining for software development: a systematic literature re-
    view, ACM Transactions on Software Engineering and Methodology
    (TOSEM) 31 (3) (2022) 1–41.

[14] D. W. Carroll, Psychology of language (2008).

[15] T. A. Harley, The psychology of language: From data to theory, Psy-
    chology press, 2013.

                                    69
[16] W. J. Levelt, A history of psycholinguistics: The pre-Chomskyan era,
    Oxford University Press, 2013.

[17] M. Traxler, M. A. Gernsbacher, Handbook of psycholinguistics, Elsevier,
    2011.

[18] P. Fletcher, B. MacWhinney, et al., The handbook of child language,
    Blackwell Oxford, 1995.

[19] G. A. Miller, The cognitive revolution: a historical perspective, Trends
    in cognitive sciences 7 (3) (2003) 141–144.

[20] R. A. Harris, The chomskyan revolution i: Syntax, semantics, and sci-
    ence, Perspectives on Science 2 (1) (1994) 38–75.

[21] K. A. Neuendorf, The content analysis guidebook, sage, 2017.

[22] Y. R. Tausczik, J. W. Pennebaker, The psychological meaning of words:
    Liwc and computerized text analysis methods, Journal of language and
    social psychology 29 (1) (2010) 24–54.

[23] J. W. Pennebaker, R. L. Boyd, K. Jordan, K. Blackburn, The develop-
    ment and psychometric properties of liwc2015, Tech. rep. (2015).

[24] R. L. Boyd, A. Ashokkumar, S. Seraj, J. W. Pennebaker, The develop-
    ment and psychometric properties of liwc-22, Austin, TX: University of
    Texas at Austin (2022) 1–47.

[25] P. Chatterjee, K. Damevski, L. Pollock, Automatic extraction of
    opinion-based q&a from online developer chats, in: 2021 IEEE/ACM


                                     70
    43rd International Conference on Software Engineering (ICSE), 2021,
    pp. 1260–1272. doi:10.1109/ICSE43902.2021.00115.

[26] A. Sajadi, K. Damevski, P. Chatterjee, Interpersonal trust in oss: Ex-
    ploring dimensions of trust in github pull requests, in: 2023 IEEE/ACM
    45th International Conference on Software Engineering: New Ideas and
    Emerging Results (ICSE-NIER), IEEE, 2023, pp. 19–24.

[27] A. Sajadi, K. Damevski, P. Chatterjee, Towards understanding emotions
    in informal developer interactions: A gitter chat study, in: Proceedings
    of the 31st ACM Joint European Software Engineering Conference and
    Symposium on the Foundations of Software Engineering, 2023, pp. 2097–
    2101.

[28] M. M. Imran, P. Chatterjee, K. Damevski, Uncovering the causes of
    emotions in software developer communication using zero-shot llms, in:
    Proceedings of the IEEE/ACM 46th International Conference on Soft-
    ware Engineering, ICSE ’24, Association for Computing Machinery, New
    York, NY, USA, 2024.

[29] D. A. Felipe, M. Kalinowski, D. Graziotin, J. C. Natividade, Psychome-
    tric instruments in software engineering research on personality: Status
    quo after fifty years, Journal of Systems and Software 203 (2023) 111740.

[30] T. Yarkoni, Personality in 100,000 words: A large-scale analysis of per-
    sonality and word use among bloggers, Journal of research in personality
    44 (3) (2010) 363–373.



                                     71
[31] R. Ehsani, R. Rezapour, P. Chatterjee, Exploring moral principles exhib-
    ited in oss: A case study on github heated issues, in: Proceedings of the
    31st ACM Joint European Software Engineering Conference and Sym-
    posium on the Foundations of Software Engineering, ESEC/FSE 2023,
    Association for Computing Machinery, New York, NY, USA, 2023, p.
    2092–2096. doi:10.1145/3611643.3613077.
    URL https://doi.org/10.1145/3611643.3613077

[32] R. L. Pardee, Motivation theories of maslow, herzberg, mcgregor & mc-
    clelland. a literature review of selected theories dealing with job satis-
    faction and motivation. (1990).

[33] P. Lenberg, R. Feldt, L. G. Wallgren, Behavioral software engineering:
    A definition and systematic literature review, Journal of Systems and
    software 107 (2015) 15–37.

[34] M. Sánchez-Gordón, R. Colomo-Palacios, Taking the emotional pulse of
    software engineering—a systematic literature review of empirical stud-
    ies, Information and Software Technology 115 (2019) 23–43.

[35] J. W. Pennebaker, M. E. Francis, R. J. Booth, Linguistic inquiry
    and word count: Liwc 2001, Mahway: Lawrence Erlbaum Associates
    71 (2001) (2001) 2001.

[36] J. H. Kahn, R. M. Tobin, A. E. Massey, J. A. Anderson, Measuring
    emotional expression with the linguistic inquiry and word count, The
    American journal of psychology 120 (2) (2007) 263–286.



                                      72
[37] R. Z. Lumontod III, Seeing the invisible: Extracting signs of depres-
    sion and suicidal ideation from college students’ writing using liwc a
    computerized text analysis, Int. J. Res. Stud. Educ 9 (2020) 31–44.

[38] S. E. Kangas, What can software tell us about political candidates?: A
    critical analysis of a computerized method for political discourse, Jour-
    nal of Language and Politics 13 (1) (2014) 77–97.

[39] A. Tumasjan, T. Sprenger, P. Sandner, I. Welpe, Predicting elections
    with twitter: What 140 characters reveal about political sentiment, in:
    Proceedings of the international AAAI conference on web and social
    media, Vol. 4, 2010, pp. 178–185.

[40] S. Apriyanto, A. Anum, Personality of politicians as the object of public
    assessment, in: Proceedings of the 2nd International Conference of Sci-
    ence and Technology for the Internet of Things, ICSTI 2019, September
    3rd 2019, Yogyakarta, Indonesia, 2020.

[41] S. W. Stirman, J. W. Pennebaker, Word use in the poetry of suicidal
    and nonsuicidal poets, Psychosomatic medicine 63 (4) (2001) 517–522.

[42] J. W. Pennebaker, C. K. Chung, et al., Computerized text analysis of
    al-qaeda transcripts, A content analysis reader 453465 (2008).

[43] A. Ashokkumar, J. W. Pennebaker, Social media conversations reveal
    large psychological shifts caused by covid-19’s onset across us cities,
    Science advances 7 (39) (2021) eabg7843.

[44] B. Kitchenham, O. P. Brereton, D. Budgen, M. Turner, J. Bailey,


                                     73
    S. Linkman, Systematic literature reviews in software engineering–a sys-
    tematic literature review, Information and software technology 51 (1)
    (2009) 7–15.

[45] M. J. Page, J. E. McKenzie, P. M. Bossuyt, I. Boutron, T. C. Hoffmann,
    C. D. Mulrow, L. Shamseer, J. M. Tetzlaff, E. A. Akl, S. E. Brennan,
    et al., The prisma 2020 statement: an updated guideline for reporting
    systematic reviews, bmj 372 (2021).

[46] A. Batool, D. Zowghi, M. Bano, Ai governance: a systematic literature
    review, AI and Ethics (2025) 1–15.

[47] IEEE, IEEE Xplore Digital Library (2023).
    URL https://ieeexplore.ieee.org/Xplore/home.jsp

[48] ACM, ACM Digital Library (2023).
    URL https://dl.acm.org/

[49] Elsevier, ScienceDirect (2023).
    URL https://www.sciencedirect.com/

[50] SpringerLink, Springerlink (2023).
    URL https://link.springer.com/

[51] Wiley, Wiley Online Library (2023).
    URL https://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/

[52] Scopus, Scopus (2023).
    URL https://www.scopus.com/home.uri



                                       74
[53] G. Halevi, H. Moed, J. Bar-Ilan, Suitability of google scholar as a source
    of scientific information and as a source of data for scientific evalu-
    ation—review of the literature, Journal of informetrics 11 (3) (2017)
    823–834.

[54] D. R. Thomas, A general inductive approach for analyzing qualitative
    evaluation data, American journal of evaluation 27 (2) (2006) 237–246.

[55] J. R. Landis, G. G. Koch, The measurement of observer agreement for
    categorical data, Biometrics 33 (1) (1977).

[56] P. Lenberg, R. Feldt, L. G. Wallgren, Human factors related challenges
    in software engineering–an industrial perspective, in: 2015 ieee/acm 8th
    international workshop on cooperative and human aspects of software
    engineering, IEEE, 2015, pp. 43–49.

[57] G. Destefanis, M. Ortu, S. Counsell, S. Swift, M. Marchesi, R. Tonelli,
    Software development: do good manners matter?, PeerJ Computer Sci-
    ence 2 (2016) e73.

[58] M. Ortu, A. Murgia, G. Destefanis, P. Tourani, R. Tonelli, M. Marchesi,
    B. Adams, The emotional side of software developers in jira, in: Proceed-
    ings of the 13th international conference on mining software repositories,
    2016, pp. 480–483.

[59] R. Souza, B. Silva, Sentiment analysis of travis ci builds, in: 2017
    IEEE/ACM 14th International Conference on Mining Software Reposi-
    tories (MSR), IEEE, 2017, pp. 459–462.



                                      75
[60] J. W. Pennebaker, L. A. King, Linguistic styles: language use as an
    individual difference., Journal of personality and social psychology 77 (6)
    (1999) 1296.

[61] J. Golbeck, C. Robles, K. Turner, Predicting personality with social
    media, in: CHI’11 extended abstracts on human factors in computing
    systems, 2011, pp. 253–262.

[62] L. R. Goldberg, An alternative” description of personality”: the big-five
    factor structure., Journal of personality and social psychology 59 (6)
    (1990) 1216.

[63] M. Duijn, A. Kucera, A. Bacchelli, Quality questions need quality code:
    Classifying code fragments on stack overflow, in: 2015 IEEE/ACM 12th
    Working Conference on Mining Software Repositories, IEEE, 2015, pp.
    410–413.

[64] D. Druckman, J. A. Swets, et al., Enhancing human performance: Is-
    sues, theories, and techniques, National Academies Press, 1988.

[65] G. Hofstede, Cultural dimensions in management and planning, Asia
    Pacific journal of management 1 (1984) 81–99.

[66] L. Lavazza, S. Morasca, D. Taibi, D. Tosi, Predicting oss trustworthi-
    ness on the basis of elementary code assessment, in: Proceedings of
    the 2010 ACM-IEEE International Symposium on Empirical Software
    Engineering and Measurement, 2010, pp. 1–4.

[67] F. Calefato, F. Lanubile, N. Novielli, A preliminary analysis on the
    effects of propensity to trust in distributed software development, in:

                                     76
    2017 IEEE 12th international conference on global software engineering
    (ICGSE), IEEE, 2017, pp. 56–60.

[68] G. A. M. da Cruz, E. H. Moriya-Huzita, V. D. Feltrim, Arsenal-gsd:
    A framework for trust estimation in virtual teams based on sentiment
    analysis, Information and software technology 95 (2018) 46–61.

[69] A. S. M. Venigalla, S. Chimalakonda, Understanding emotions of devel-
    oper community towards software documentation, in: 2021 IEEE/ACM
    43rd International Conference on Software Engineering: Software Engi-
    neering in Society (ICSE-SEIS), IEEE, 2021, pp. 87–91.

[70] S. M. Mohammad, P. D. Turney, Crowdsourcing a word–emotion asso-
    ciation lexicon, Computational intelligence 29 (3) (2013) 436–465.

[71] L. Yin, Z. Chen, Q. Xuan, V. Filkov, Sustainability forecasting for
    apache incubator projects, in: Proceedings of the 29th ACM Joint Meet-
    ing on European Software Engineering Conference and Symposium on
    the Foundations of Software Engineering, ESEC/FSE 2021, Association
    for Computing Machinery, New York, NY, USA, 2021, p. 1056–1067.
    doi:10.1145/3468264.3468563.
    URL https://doi.org/10.1145/3468264.3468563

[72] P. C. Rigby, A. E. Hassan, What can oss mailing lists tell us? a prelim-
    inary psychometric text analysis of the apache developer mailing list,
    in: Fourth International Workshop on Mining Software Repositories
    (MSR’07:ICSE Workshops 2007), 2007, pp. 23–23. doi:10.1109/MSR.
    2007.35.


                                     77
[73] K. M. Subash, L. P. Kumar, S. L. Vadlamani, P. Chatterjee, O. Baysal,
    Disco: A dataset of discord chat conversations for software engineering
    research, in: Proceedings of the 19th International Conference on Mining
    Software Repositories, 2022, pp. 227–231.

[74] R. Feldt, R. Torkar, L. Angelis, M. Samuelsson, Towards individualized
    software engineering: empirical studies should collect psychometrics, in:
    Proceedings of the 2008 international workshop on Cooperative and hu-
    man aspects of software engineering, 2008, pp. 49–52.

[75] D. Katz, R. L. Kahn, The social psychology of organizations, Vol. 2,
    wiley New York, 1978.

[76] S. G. Isaksen, G. Ekvall, H. Akkermans, G. V. Wilson, J. P. Gaulin,
    Assessing the Context for Change: A Technical Manual for the Situa-
    tional Outlook Questionnaire, Enhancing Performance of Organizations,
    Leaders and Teams for Over 50 Years, Creative Problem Solving Group,
    2007.

[77] D. R. Denison, What is the difference between organizational culture
    and organizational climate? a native’s point of view on a decade of
    paradigm wars, Academy of management review 21 (3) (1996) 619–654.

[78] M. E. Seligman, M. Csikszentmihalyi, Positive psychology: An intro-
    duction., Vol. 55, American Psychological Association, 2000.

[79] J. Feist, Theories of personality, brown & benchmark, 1994, URL
    http://books. google. se/books.



                                      78
[80] Wikipedia, Leadership psychology, accessed in 2023.
    URL https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Leadership_psychology

[81] D. R. Forsyth, Group dynamics, Cengage Learning, 2018.

[82] D. C. Feldman, The development and enforcement of group norms,
    Academy of management review 9 (1) (1984) 47–53.

[83] S. Messick, The nature of cognitive styles: Problems and promise in
    educational practice, Educational psychologist 19 (2) (1984) 59–74.

[84] R. P. Tett, J. P. Meyer, Job satisfaction, organizational commitment,
    turnover intention, and turnover: path analyses based on meta-analytic
    findings, Personnel psychology 46 (2) (1993) 259–293.

[85] study.com, Organizational change:    Examples, theory & strategies,
    accessed in 2023 (2023).
    URL                               https://study.com/learn/lesson/
    organizational-change-examples-theory-strategies.html

[86] G. M. Vaughan, M. A. Hogg, Social psychology, Pearson Higher Educa-
    tion AU, 2013.

[87] D. W. Griesinger, J. W. Livingston Jr, Toward a model of interpersonal
    motivation in experimental games, Behavioral science 18 (3) (1973) 173–
    188.

[88] American Psychology Association, accessed in 2023. [link].
    URL https://dictionary.apa.org/stress



                                    79
[89] M.-T. Tsai, N.-C. Cheng, Programmer perceptions of knowledge-sharing
    behavior under social cognitive theory, Expert Systems with Applica-
    tions 37 (12) (2010) 8479–8485.

[90] F. Doshi-Velez, B. Kim, Towards a rigorous science of interpretable ma-
    chine learning, arXiv preprint arXiv:1702.08608 (2017).

[91] N. Pervez, A. J. Titus, Inclusivity in large language models: Per-
    sonality traits and gender bias in scientific abstracts, arXiv preprint
    arXiv:2406.19497 (2024).




                                      80
