                                        Empirical Software Engineering manuscript No.
                                        (will be inserted by the editor)




                                        Code Reviews in Open Source Projects : How Do Gender
                                        Biases Affect Participation and Outcomes?

                                        Sayma Sultana · Asif Kamal Turzo
                                        Amiangshu Bosu




                                        Revised: February 7, 2023 / Accepted: TBD
arXiv:2210.00139v2 [cs.SE] 8 Feb 2023




                                        Abstract Context: Contemporary software development organizations lack
                                        diversity and the ratios of women in Free and open-source software (FOSS)
                                        communities are even lower than the industry average. Although the results
                                        of recent studies hint at the existence of biases against women, it is unclear
                                        to what extent such biases influence the outcomes of various software devel-
                                        opment tasks.
                                            Aim: This study conceptually replicates two recent studies by Terrell et
                                        al. and Bosu and Sultana that investigated gender biases in FOSS commu-
                                        nities. We aim to identify whether the outcomes of or participation in code
                                        reviews (or pull requests) are influenced by the gender of a developer. In par-
                                        ticular, we focus on two outcome aspects (i.e., code acceptance, and review
                                        interval) and one participation aspect (i.e., code review participation) of code
                                        review processes. Approach: With this goal, this study includes a total of 1010
                                        FOSS projects. Ten out of those projects use Gerrit-based code reviews. The
                                        remaining 1000 are randomly selected from the GHTorrrent dataset based on
                                        a stratified sampling of projects fitting certain criteria. We divided GitHub
                                        projects into four groups based on the number of distinct contributors. We de-
                                        veloped six regression models for each of the 14 datasets (i.e., 10 Gerrit based
                                        and four GitHub) to identify if code acceptance, review intervals, and code
                                        review participation differ based on the gender and gender-neutral profile of a
                                        developer.
                                            Key findings: Our results find significant gender biases during code ac-
                                        ceptance among 13 out of the 14 datasets, with seven favoring men and the
                                        remaining six favoring women. We found significant differences between men
                                        and women in terms of code review intervals, with women encountering longer
                                        delays in three cases and the opposite in seven. Our results indicate reviewer
                                        selection as one of the most gender-biased aspects with 12 out of 14 datasets

                                        S. Sultana, A. Turzo, and A. Bosu
                                        Department of Computer Science, Wayne State University, Detroit, Michigan.
                                        E-mail: sayma@wayne.edu, asifkamal@wayne.edu, abosu@wayne.edu,
2                                                                     Sultana et al.


exhibiting biases. A total of 11 out of the 14 cases show that women have sig-
nificantly lower code review participation than their men peers. Since most of
the review assignments are based on invitations, this result suggests possible
affinity biases among the developers. We also noticed a significantly higher
likelihood of women using gender-neutral profiles. Supporting Terrell et al.’s
claim, women with gender-neutral profiles had higher odds of code acceptance
among three Gerrit-based projects. However, contradicting their results, we
found significantly lower odds of code acceptance for women with gender-
neutral profiles across all four GitHub project groups.
    Conclusion: Though gender bias exists among many projects, the direction
and amplitude of bias vary based on project size, community, and culture.
Similar bias mitigation strategies may not work across all communities, as
characteristics of biases and their underlying causes differ. As women are less
likely to be invited for reviews, FOSS projects should take initiatives to ensure
equitable selection of women as reviewers.
Keywords code review · diversity and inclusion · pull requests · gender bias


1 Introduction

According to the US labor market census in 2019, women make up approx-
imately 18.8% of technical roles in the software industry and 18% of com-
puter science graduates [8]. However, the number of females contributing to
Free and Open Source Software (FOSS) projects is even lower (i.e., less than
10%) [84, 90]; which indicates a significant gender imbalance within the FOSS
communities. Due to the lack of gender diversity, many women hesitate to
join FOSS projects, as one quotes, “I feel like it’s a circle I can’t get into. But
mostly I fear the excessive spotlight of being the sole female programmer on a
publicly available project. In light of how women are treated on the internet,
this fear does not seem unreasonable” [7]. The lack of diversity among FOSS
communities has been subjected to several prior studies [15, 25, 33, 62]. To in-
crease diversity through recruitment of the underrepresented groups, FOSS
communities such as Mozilla [6], Debian [24], and Fedora [83], as well as com-
mercial software development organizations such as Google1 and Deloitte [16],
have adopted several initiatives.
    However, these diversity initiatives may not achieve adequate results if a
community does not promote ‘inclusion’ by providing equal access to opportu-
nities and resources for people who might otherwise be excluded or marginal-
ized [17]. Vernā Myers, a leading diversity and inclusion strategist, says, “While
diversity means being invited to the party, inclusion means to be asked for a
dance” [49]. Sense of inclusion drives people to be more productive and engaged
with the workplace as well as improves overall team performance and creativ-
ity [17, 49]. Organizations that practice inclusion generate up to 30% higher
revenue per employee and greater profitability than their competitors [16].
    1 https://diversity.google/
How Do Gender Biases Affect Code Review Participation and Outcomes?              3


    Despite these known benefits, increasing Diversity Equity Inclusion (DEI)
among FOSS communities is difficult due to various explicit [30] and implicit
biases [2] against minorities. For example, a 2017 study by Terrell et al. [84]
found that women’s pull-requests are less likely to be accepted than those
created by men if their gender is visibly identifiable. On the other hand, if
a woman’s gender is not identifiable, her pull requests have higher odds of
acceptance than those created by men. Another study by Bosu et al. [15]
investigated the state of DEI among ten popular FOSS projects. Their results
hint at possible biases against woman developers in three out of the ten cases
as women had lower code acceptance rates as well as longer delays than men
in getting feedback for submitted changes. Additionally in one project women
received significantly lower code review invitations than their men peers.
    However, based on the results of this two studies [15,84], we cannot predict
to what extent developers’ genders influence those outcomes, since several
other confounding factors may have been influential as well. For example, the
acceptance of a pull request may be influenced by its size, complexity, and
whether it includes a new feature or a bug fix. Bosu et al.’s study [15] did
not account for any of these confounding factors. Although Terrell et al. [84]
conducted post hoc analysis to identify the influences of other factors such
as experience, patch size, patch type, and status within the community, it is
unclear how much variances in acceptance rates are influenced by the genders
of the contributors. To answer these questions, this study aims to conduct a
partial conceptual replication [74] of these two studies (i.e. Terrell et al. [84],
and Bosu et al. [15]) by adopting measures to control for various confounding
factors.
    In this replication, we aim to identify whether the outcomes of or par-
ticipation in code reviews (or pull requests) are influenced by the gender of a
developer. However, since the identification of non-binary genders is not feasi-
ble without inputs from the subjects, we focus primarily on men and women.
With this goal, this study includes a total of 1010 FOSS projects. Ten out
of those projects are selected to replicate Bosu et al.’s study. The remaining
1000 are randomly selected from GHTorrent [34] dataset based on a stratified
sampling of projects fitting certain criteria. We divided GitHub projects into
four groups based on the number of distinct contributors. Similar to Bosu et
al., we computed genders initially using the GenderComputer tool [89], then
followed up with manual validations using multiple sources including avatars,
and social media profiles.
    We select two outcome aspects and one participation aspect of code re-
views: i) acceptance rate– the ratios of submitted code reviews (or pull re-
quests) that are accepted, 2) review interval – the time from the beginning to
the end of the review process, and 3) code review participation– the number
of code reviews within a period as a reviewer. We developed six regression
models for each of the 14 datasets (i.e., 10 Gerrit based and four GitHub),
where one of those three aspects is the dependent variable and in addition to
the genders of the contributors, various confounding factors that have been
found to be influential in patch acceptance by prior studies, are independent
4                                                                   Sultana et al.


variables. We used multivariate regression modeling techniques since those can
be used to estimate the relationships between a dependent variable and one
or more independent variables (aka ‘predictors’) and are commonly used to
eliminate effects of confounding variables [39, 67].
    We proposed this study in a registered report titled “Are Code Review Pro-
cesses Influenced by the Genders of the Participants?” This registered report
included our proposed study protocol and was published in ICSME 2021 [80].
According to the plan, we executed our study where we considered thirteen
characteristics of contributors and pull requests to identify the impact of gen-
der in three aspects: pull request acceptance, code review interval, and code
review participation. We have tried our best to execute the study exactly ac-
cording to our proposed protocol. However, during the study execution, we
decided to mine the selected projects again to include the most recent code
reviews /pull requests. We also altered our protocol to determine whether a
profile is gender neutral since during execution, we identified several shortcom-
ings of our initial choice (i.e., Terrell et al. ’s approach). We have described
those deviations in Section 4.4.2 and in a Disclaimer at the end of this paper.
    In summary, the primary contributions of this study:
 – Empirical evidence regarding how gender influences code review processes.
 – An investigation of how gender biases manifest across various project groups.
 – Recommendations for projects to increase diversity and inclusion.
 – An update of the status quo of gender diversity among FOSS projects.
 – To promote replication, we have made our scripts, and dataset (without
   personally identifiable information) publicly on Zenodo [81].
    The remainder of the paper is organized as follows. Section 2 briefly de-
scribes our replication protocol and the two studies being replicated. Section
3 presents formulated hypotheses based on our research questions. Section 4
details our research methodology. Section 5 and Section 6 presents the results
and discusses the implications respectively. Section 7 describes prior related
works. Finally, Section 8 and 9 discusses threats to validity and concludes the
paper respectively.


2 Replication Protocol

Replications are crucial in the Software Engineering (SE) domain to build
knowledge through a family of experiments [73]. According to Shull et al. [74],
SE replications falls into two categories:
1. Exact replication: In an exact replication, study procedures are closely fol-
   lowed. Exact replications can be further divided into two subcategories:
   i) dependent and ii) independent. In a dependent replication, all the vari-
   ables and conditions are kept as close to the original studies as possible.
   However, some of the aspects of the original study can be modified in an
   independent replication to fit a new context.
How Do Gender Biases Affect Code Review Participation and Outcomes?            5


2. Conceptual replication: This category of replications uses different research
   methodologies to study the same set of questions.
   Our replications for this study fall into the ‘partial conceptual replication’
category, since– i) we plan to use a different type of statistical modeling tech-
nique, ii) we will measure and account for additional confounding variables
not considered in the original studies, iii) we will use updated versions of the
datasets to include recent code reviews to reflect contemporary state of the
projects, and iv) we are interested in partial replications to retest only the
results from the original studies hinting explicit gender biases. The following
subsections, briefly describe those two studies.


2.1 Gender differences and biases during pull request acceptance [84]

To investigate gender biases among FOSS projects, Terrell et al. investigated
pull request (PR) acceptance on GitHub. The stated goals of their study were
to what extent do gender biases exist among contributors judging PRs for ac-
ceptance.
Study Design: Terrell et al. used the GHTorrent dataset [34] from June 07,
2010, to April 1, 2015. To estimate the genders of the contributors, they first
used the GenderComputer tool [89]. They augmented this resolution with
Google+ profile search based on a contributor’s GitHub-listed email address.
To identify whether a profile is gender neutral or not, they downloaded GitHub
profile pictures and used ImageMagick to identify ‘identicons’2 They classified
a GitHub account as gender neutral if: i) the profile uses an identicon ii) the
gender inference tool outputs ‘unknown’ for both user login name and full
name, and iii) their mixed-culture panel judges could not resolve the gender.
They considered each pull request as a data point with men forming the ‘con-
trol group’ and women as the ‘treatment’. In addition to gender, they investi-
gated the following confounding factors during posthoc analyses: i) number of
lines added, ii) number of lines removed, iii) number of commits, iv) number
of files changed, v) pull index (i.e., the author’s nth pull request), vi) number
of references to issues, vii) licenses (whether a project is open-source or not),
viii) creator type (i.e., insider or outsider), and ix) file extension.
Key results: The key findings of their study are:

– Acceptance rate: Although they hypothesized women have a lower accep-
  tance rate than men overall, they found support for a contrasting hy-
  pothesis. Overall women had 78.7% acceptance rate, while men had 74.6%
  (χ2 =1170,p<0.001).
– Survivorship Bias: They hypothesized that the acceptance rate starts low
  for women and surviving women make the majority of pull requests. Their
  investigation of PRs over time (i.e., average acceptance on the first PR,
 2   5×5 pixel sprites that are generated using a hash of the user’s ID.
6                                                                  Sultana et al.


  second PR, and so on) found women having higher acceptance rates all
  along.
– Focus on limited projects: Their second hypothesis stated that women limit
  their contribution to fewer projects and maintain higher success rates. While
  women do tend to work on fewer projects, due to limited data points, their
  investigation was not conclusive to draw any clear conclusion regarding
  whether women working on a higher number of projects have higher or
  lower acceptance rates.
– Pull requests for much-needed features or issues: To evaluate if women’s
  PRs fulfill any immediate need, they examined descriptions of PRs and the
  percentage of requests that refers to any issue. Results showed that women
  were less likely to submit PRs satisfying immediate project needs.
– Size of changes: They investigated the number of women’s contributions
  using three metrics: lines of code changed, number of modified files, and
  number of commits in each pull request. They found out that on average
  women make larger PRs than men.
– Success in contributing program code: Researchers considered Turing-complete
  programming languages as program code and showed that women possess
  a higher acceptance rate in submitting programming codes.
– Appearance as woman: To find out the effect of being revealed as a woman,
  the authors divided their analysis into two parts. For insiders, they found
  out that women possess almost an equal acceptance rate when their gender
  is identifiable or not. As outsiders, women with gender-identifiable profiles
  have 10.2% lower acceptance rates than women with gender-neutral profiles.

Artifacts: Among the 4.03 million GitHub users, who publicly listed their email
addresses, their Google+ assisted linking strategy helped identify genders of
1.4 million (35.3%) contributors. Since their gender-linking approach may raise
privacy concerns, they did not publish their dataset publicly. However, their
scripts are publicly available for replication.


2.2 Diversity and inclusion in FOSS projects [15]

Bosu et al. [15] investigated the state of diversity and inclusion among ten
FOSS projects based on the following four research questions:
– RQ1 : What are the percentages of female contributors in popular FOSS
  projects?
– RQ2 : What percentage of leadership roles are occupied by females among
  the FOSS projects?
– RQ3: Are female developers of FOSS projects significantly more/less pro-
  ductive than their male colleagues?
– RQ4: Is there any explicit bias for or against female developers in FOSS
  projects?
Study Design: Using a tool to mine Gerrit-based code reviews, they mined
data from ten FOSS projects: i) Android, ii) Chromium OS, ii) Couchbase,
How Do Gender Biases Affect Code Review Participation and Outcomes?               7


iv) Go, v) LibreOffice, vi) OmapZoom, vii) oVirt, viii) Qt, ix) Typo3, and x)
Whamcloud. In the first step, they used the GenderComputer tool to resolve
the gender of the users. For all non-male users classified by the GenderCom-
puter tool, they executed a five-step manual verification process where they
used a step only if its preceding steps were failures. These steps are: i) check-
ing Gerrit’s avatar, ii) using Google+, iii) using LinkedIn profiles, iv) using
Facebook accounts, and v) using Google search. Using this strategy, they were
able to resolve genders for 99% of the non-casual developers (i.e., developers
who had made at least five commits). To investigate the state of diversity and
inclusion, they calculated the percentage of non-casual and core developers
in those projects. They used commit count-based heuristics to identify core
developers, where the group of contributors belonging in the top 10% based on
commit count for a project is the core. To compare the productivity between
men and women, the authors considered two metrics: code churn per month
and code changes per month, and calculated the median of those. Furthermore,
to find out if women encounter explicit biases, authors took into account the
following four metrics: i) acceptance rate, ii) first feedback interval, iii) review
interval, and iv) code churn per comment.
Results: Following points are the result of their study that address the proposed
research questions respectively:

– Gender diversity: They found that in all of the projects women comprise
  less than 10% of the non-casual developers.
– Gender inclusion: Among six out of the ten projects, the percentage of
  women as core developers is even lower than the percentage of women as
  non-casual developers. On average, 4.14% women among the core developers
  also showed a poor representation of women in leadership roles.
– Productivity comparison: None of the projects showed any significant dif-
  ferences between men and women in terms of two productivity metrics: i)
  code churn per month, ii) code changes per month.
– Explicit bias for/against women: Their results suggest potential explicit
  biases against women in three among ten projects. In these projects, women
  had a lower code acceptance rate, had to wait significantly longer to get
  their initial feedback from the reviewers, and also had to wait a significantly
  longer time to get their complete review. On the contrary, in three other
  projects, the result shows biases favoring women. They also showed that
  men participate more in code reviews. As code review is done based on
  invitations, authors hypothesized that women may be excluded to favor
  men.

Artifacts: For all ten projects, authors mined a total of 683,865 pull requests
and identified 4,543 developers’ information in total. Among the developers,
they were successful in inferring 4,496 (99%) developers’ gender. They also did
not publish their data publicly due to privacy concerns. However, we do have
access to their scripts and dataset due to an overlapping author.
8                                                                   Sultana et al.


3 Hypotheses

Our primary goal is to investigate whether the outcomes of or participation
in code reviews are influenced by the gender of a developer. Although Terrell
et al [84] found higher acceptance rates for women on GitHub, Bosu et al.’s
[15] results support that finding in only two out of the ten projects and three
projects from their study suggested the contrary. Therefore, our first research
question is:
    RQ1: Do the genders of the contributors influence acceptance of their code
    changes?
    While we acknowledge that there are several possible choices for the gender
of a person3 , due to the lack of a reliable automated mechanism to identify
genders that do not fall into binary choices (e.g. man, woman), prior Soft-
ware Engineering (SE) studies [15, 52, 84, 90] confined to comparisons between
men and women while studying the impact of gender. Therefore, we plan to
limit our investigations to identify the differences between men and women by
formalizing this research question into the following two hypotheses:
    H1.10 : There are no significant differences in code acceptance rates between
men and women.
    H1.1a : There are significant differences in code acceptance rates between
men and women.
    Since Terrell et al. [84] found that women have a significantly lower code
acceptance rate than men when their gender is identifiable, we pose two addi-
tional hypotheses.
    H1.20 : There are no significant differences in code acceptance rates between
men/women with and without gender identifiable profiles.
    H1.2a : There are significant differences in code acceptance rates between
men/women with and without gender-identifiable profiles.
    ‘Code review interval’ spans from the beginning to the end of the code
review process [70]. Bosu et al. [15] found that women developers had to
wait three times longer than men in two out of the ten projects. However, two
of their projects suggested the opposite. Our next research question aims to
investigate those differences.
    RQ2: Do the genders of the contributors influence code review intervals
    for their code changes?
   We formalize this research question into the following two hypotheses:
   H2.10 : There are no significant differences in review intervals between men
and women.
   H2.1a : There are significant differences in code review intervals between
men and women.
   Since identifiable gender may influence code review intervals, we pose two
additional hypotheses.
    3 https://www.healthline.com/health/different-genders
How Do Gender Biases Affect Code Review Participation and Outcomes?            9


  H2.20 : There are no significant differences in code review intervals between
men/women with and without gender identifiable profiles.
  H2.2a : There are significant differences in code review intervals between
men/women with and without gender identifiable profiles.
    Although women did not exhibit lower productivity than men, Bosu et al.
[15] found significantly lower participation of women in code reviews in one
project. They hypothesize that, since participation in a code review is based on
invitations from peers, a man may prefer other men over women contributors
for his reviewing code changes [15]. Hence, our next research question is:

 RQ3: Do the genders of the contributors influence their participation in
 code reviews?

   We formalize this research question into the following two hypotheses:
   H3.10 : There are no significant differences in code review participation be-
tween men and women.
   H3.1a : There are significant differences in code review participation between
men and women.
   However, as identifiable gender may influence code review invitations, we
pose the following two hypotheses.
   H3.20 : There are no significant differences in code review participation be-
tween men/women with and without gender identifiable profiles.
   H3.2a : There are significant differences in code review participation between
men/women with and without gender identifiable profiles.


4 Research method

We conducted our study on a total of 1010 projects, where 10 projects use Ger-
rit [1] and 1,000 projects are mined from GitHub based on a stratified sampling
strategy. While we acknowledge the subtle difference between Gerrit-based
code reviews [11] and GitHub’s pull request-based ones [35], the participation
and outcome aspects addressed in this study are mostly similar. For the sake
of brevity, we use the term ‘CR’ to refer to both code review and pull request
hereinafter. The following subsections detail our approaches to selecting con-
founding variables relevant to our research questions, preparing datasets for
Gerrit and GitHub-based projects, computing attributes, and analyzing data.


4.1 Variable Selection

Table 1 lists the three dependent, two independent, and eleven confounding
variables for our study. We have grouped the confounding variables into two
categories, i.e., contributor characteristics and changeset characteristics. Both
of our independent variables (i.e., Gender, and Gender neutral profile) also
10                                                                      Sultana et al.


belong to the contributor characteristics group. Table 1 also includes a de-
scription and rationale behind the selection for each of the variables. We se-
lected a confounding variable for inclusion if either a prior study has found its
influence on CR outcomes [5, 28, 36, 45, 51, 55, 82, 87] or it was included in one
of the two original studies [15,84]. The name of the variable inside parentheses
denotes its acronym that we have used to refer to it hereinafter.


4.2 Gerrit Dataset Preparation

Due to an overlapping author, we had access to the dataset of 683,865 CRs
curated in Bosu et al.’s [15] study. Projects of this dataset were selected based
on two criteria: 1) Projects are actively using Gerrit. 2) Contributors of that
project reviewed at least 15,000 requests. Since OmapZoom, one of the projects
from their selection, is no longer active, we replaced it with WikiMedia. Wiki-
Media also satisfies selection criteria laid out by Bosu et al. Using the same
Gerrit-Miner tool used in their study, we updated Bosu et al.’s dataset to in-
clude all CRs completed till 30th April 2022. We identified the bot accounts
for exclusion using a set of keywords (e.g., ‘bot’, ‘CI’, ‘Jenkins’, ‘build’, ‘auto’,
‘devop’, ‘hook’, ‘workflow’ and ‘travis’) followed by manual validations. Similar
to Bosu et al. , we used the Levenshtein distance between two names to iden-
tify similar names. We performed manual reviews of the associated accounts
to identify and merge the multiple accounts belonging to the same person
into one account. Similar to the original study [15], we limited our analysis to
non-casual contributors. We also wrote another script to download and store
avatar images for all the users. Table 2 lists the demographic of the projects.
This updated dataset includes more than 3.3 million CRs, which is approxi-
mately five times more than the original study. We include a total of 12,252
non-casual developers, which is also 2.66 times more than Bosu et al.’s.


4.3 GitHub Dataset Preparation

We used the publicly available GHTorrent MySQL dump from March 2021. We
imported this data dump on a local MySQL instance. This dataset includes
a total of 45.8 million users and 109.2 million pull requests. Since it is not
feasible to include such a large number of PRs, we focused on selecting a
sample of 1000 projects. Following the recommendations of Kallamvakou et
al. [47], We defined the following selection criteria to include only software
projects actively using the PR-based development model [35].

1. A software development project using one of the popular programming
   languages, such as C, C++, Java, JavaScript, Python, PHP, Ruby, C#,
   Scala, Lua, Go, Kotlin, Typescript, and Rust.
2. Source code is available under an open Source license.
3. At least 20 contributors.
How Do Gender Biases Affect Code Review Participation and Outcomes?                           11


Table 1 Descriptions and rationale of the dependent and independent variables. We group
the independent variables into two categories: i) contributor characteristics and ii) changeset
characteristics. For building the ‘CR participation model’, we will use only the independent
variables listed in the ‘contributor characteristics’ group.
 Name               Description              Rationale
                                    Independent variables
 Variable group: Contributor characteristics
 Gender (Gen-       Whether a contributor This study’s objective is to identify influences
 der)               is a man or woman        of gender.
 Gender neutral     If a contributor’s pro- Terrell et al. found identifiable gender influ-
 profile (isGen-    file is gender neutral   encing acceptance rates [84].
 derNeutral)
 Number          of Number of code com- Changes submitted by experienced develop-
 total commits      mits a developer has     ers who have higher number of commits can
 (totalCommit)      made to a project        be subjected to less scrutiny and may in-
                                             clude lower number of mistakes than inexpe-
                                             rienced developers [13]. Experienced develop-
                                             ers are also more likely to be invited for code
                                             reviews [59].
 Tenure             Span of time developer   Developers who are working on project for
 (tenure)           is contributing to the longer period time are more knowledgeable
                    project                  of the project’s design [59], are able to iden-
                                             tify potential reviewers quickly than newcom-
                                             ers [11], and are more likely to be invited as
                                             reviewers.
 Review experi- The number of pull re- Experienced reviewers are more likely get in-
 ence (revExp)      quests that a developer  vited for more reviews [59]
                    has examined in the
                    project as a reviewer
  Variable group: Changeset characteristics
 Patch         size Number of lines modi- Larger changes are more likely to be buggy,
 (patchSize)        fied/ added/ deleted in  require longer time to review [14] and less like
                    a code review request    to be accepted [46].
 Cyclomatic         McCabe’s cyclomatic      When a patch set is difficult to comprehend,
 complexity         complexity               it will need a longer review intervals [4] and is
 (cyCmplx)                                   more likely to be rejected.
 Number          of Number of revisions Higher number of patchsets would increase re-
 patchset           executed in the submit- view intervals as well as probability of rejec-
 (numPatch)         ted request              tions [11]
 Is bug fix (is- Whether a change in- Bug fixes may be in a urgent need and get
 BugFix)            cludes a new feature or reviewed quickly [66].
                    bug fix
 Number of files    Number of files under Changes with higher number of files involved,
 (fileCount)        review in review re-     are more likely to be defect-prone [48] and re-
                    quests                   quire longer review time.
 Number          of Number of directories Changes spread across a large number number
 directories        in a review request      of directories are more likely to be buggy, diffi-
 (dirCount)         where files have been    cult to comprehend, and require longer review
                    modified                 time [5].
 Comment vol- Ratio of add/modified          Well commented changes are easy to compre-
 ume (cmtVol- lines that are com-            hend [5] and require shorter review intervals.
 ume)               ments
 Ratio of new Ratio of newly created A new file may have more issues than a file
 files (ratioNew) files to total number of which has been under review before [95]. As a
                    files in a patchset      result, a new file can have longer review inter-
                                             val and less acceptance rate.
                                    Dependent Variables
 Acceptance         Whether a code change Indicates the outcome of a code review or pull
 (isAccepted)       was accepted or re-      request.
                    jected
 Code       review  Time from beginning of Indicates whether a contributor’s code gets
 interval      (re- the code review to the   preferential treatments in a FOSS community
 viewInteval)       end
 Code       review  Average number of Indicates whether a contributor is valued by
 participation      code review where the    his/her peers.
 (avgReview-        developer participated
 PerMonth)          in the project per
                    month
12                                                                     Sultana et al.


Table 2 Demographics of Gerrit projects
     Project         Sponsor           Request mined        # of developers*
     Android         Google                     637,064                    3,351
     Chromium OS     Google                   1,536,071                    5,375
     Couchbase       Couchbase Inc.             140,124                      300
     Go              Google                      47,096                      335
     LibreOffice     Foundation                 127,812                      573
     oVirt           Redhat Inc                 113,465                      292
     Qt              Qt Company                 184,290                      815
     Typo3           Foundation                  65,399                      412
     Whamcloud       Intel                       21,724                      158
     Wikimedia       Foundation                 494,302                      904
     Total                                    3,367,347                   12,252
     * Number of developers, who have made at least five commits to this project.

4. Actively follows pull-based development with at least 20 PRs during the
   last three months in our dataset.

Project selection: To facilitate our selection, we wrote queries to compute the
number of distinct contributors, and the number of PRs for each repository.
We hypothesized that the characteristics of gender biases may also depend
on community size. To investigate this hypothesis, we divided the projects
into four groups based on the number of contributors. To facilitate referencing
these four groups, we named them according to community size, which is as
follows:
1. Small [GitHub (S)]: Projects that have 20-100 contributors.
2. Medium [GitHub (M)]: Projects having 101-250 contributors.
3. Large [GitHub (L)]: Projects with 251-500 contributors.
4. Extra large [GitHub (XL)]: Projects with more than 500 contributors.
From each group, we randomly selected 250 projects satisfying our four se-
lection criteria. Since GHTorrent dump does not include all the required at-
tributes necessary for this study, we mined those data directly from GitHub.
To ensure that all the selected projects are still available, we wrote a Python
script using the PyGithub library [44]. From our initial selection, we found
27 unavailable projects. We randomly selected 27 available projects to replace
those unavailable ones.
    After finalizing the set of projects, we wrote queries to identify all the users
who have opened at least one PR or made at least a commitment to one of
the 1,000 selected projects. We found a total of 458,486 GitHub users meet-
ing these criteria. After excluding organization and deleted accounts based on
the attributes listed in the Users table, we found a total of 310,983 users.
GHTorrent also does not include personal information such as full name, email
address, bio, blog, location, avatar, and Twitter that may assist us in gender
identification. We wrote a Python script to mine that information and popu-
late our ‘user details table. We wrote another Python script to download the
avatars of all users and store avatar images with the corresponding GitHub
How Do Gender Biases Affect Code Review Participation and Outcomes?           13


Table 3 Overview of the selected GitHub projects

  Project       # of contributors     PR mined             Total users*
  Github(S)     20-100                     80,606                  11,714
  Github(M)     101-250                   283,920                  36,244
  Github(L)     251-500                   647,574                  70,162
  Github(XL)    more than 500           1,827,092                 192,863
  Total                                 2,839,192                 310,983
  * Number of developers, who have opened at least one PR to these group.


profile id. We used the same keyword-based filtering followed by the manual
validation approach used on the Gerrit dataset, to identify and remove bot
accounts from our dataset.
    Due to the extremely large size of the GHTorrent dataset, queries take a
significant amount of time. Therefore, we wrote a script to create new tables
with a subset of rows that are related to our 1,000 selected projects from the
full tables. We put those shortened tables in a new database called ‘ghtor-
rent short’. Table 3 shows the demographics of the selected projects from our
ghtorrent short dataset. Our dataset includes a total of 2,839,192 PRs.
    Initially, we selected 250 projects from each group (GitHub(S), GitHub(M),
GitHub(L), GitHub(XL)) for data analysis. Unfortunately, while downloading
pull request details for each of those projects, some of the projects were miss-
ing. So, we could not take exactly 250 projects from each group, instead, it is
250±2. However, the total number of projects remains at 1000 for the GitHub
dataset.
Fetching pull request details: Our study also requires several attributes of each
PR that are unavailable in GHTorrent. We wrote a Python script using the
PyGithub library [44] to mine the following attributes for each PR: commit
count, the number of changed files, the sum of lines added, the sum of lines
deleted, date created, date pull merged, date closed, the total number of com-
ments, current status, merge SHA and raw URLs of the files. Our script also
downloads all the listed files in a PR using the raw URLs and computes var-
ious attributes such as Cyclomatic complexity, number of lines, number of
lines that are comments, number of methods, lines added, lines deleted, and
file status. We have added two new tables, pull details and pull files in
our GHTorrent short schema to store that information. Section 4.4 provides
more details on how each of these attributes is computed.




4.4 Variable computation

The following subsections detail the computation procedure for the three de-
pendent, two independent, and eleven confounding variables.
14                                                                   Sultana et al.


4.4.1 Gender (Gender)

Our four-step, semi-automated gender resolution steps are adopted from the
methodologies used by Terrell et al. [84] and Bosu et al. [15]. Similar to those
studies, we used the GenderComputer tool [89] to resolve developers’ genders
from name and location as the first step. In the second step, we used face
detection and gender recognition machine learning models to identify genders
from profile avatars. In the third step, we manually verified genders using
LinkedIn and social media searches, if the first two steps failed or returned
contradictory binary genders, e.g., name resolution suggests a man but avatar
suggests a woman.

1. Step 1: Gender resolution from name To resolve the gender of the GitHub
   users, we started with using GenderComputer4 . This tool takes the first and
   last name of a person and their location if that is available. The Gender-
   Computer tool classifies a person into one of the following four categories:
   1) Male, 2) Female, 3) Unisex, and 4) Unknown. We executed this step for
   all the users from both GHTorrent and Gerrit datasets.
2. Step 2: Identification of gender from avatar We used avatars downloaded
   from Gerrit and GitHub profiles to infer gender. If a user has not customized
   their avatar, an identicon is used, which is a 5×5 pixel sprite generated using
   the hash of the user’s ID. We used an empirically developed file size-based
   heuristics to identify identicons. Since we noticed that all the identicons
   are less than 1.5 kilobytes, we moved all the avatars less than 1.5 kilobytes
   to our “identicon” directory. However, this size-based heuristics is not en-
   tirely accurate, as a very small number of custom avatars also fall into this
   size group and vice versa. To fix such misclassifications, we manually in-
   spected all the identicons. To save inspection time, we inspected the files
   in the thumbnail view mode of the directory. However, since we have a
   large number of files, loading a directory with a large number of files in the
   thumbnail view is time /resource consuming. To counter this challenge, we
   executed a shell command to divide the “identicon” directory into multiple
   sub-directories with each directory including 1,000 files. During our thumb-
   nail view of each sub-directory, if we noticed any file that was misclassified,
   we used the “drag and drop” action to move the file to the correct directory.
   After excluding the identicons, we used the Haar Cascade human face de-
   tection algorithm from the OpenCV library [37] on the non-identicons. We
   wrote a Python script that places each non-identicon into one of the follow-
   ing three groups: 1) Unknown: images with no human face, 2) single: images
   with only one human face, and 3) multiple: images with multiple human
   faces. After this script’s execution, we noticed misclassifications ranging
   from 10-15%. For correction, we used the same thumbnail-based viewing
   strategy used for grouping identicon /non-identicons to move misclassified
   images to the correct directories.

 4   https://github.com/tue-mdse/genderComputer
How Do Gender Biases Affect Code Review Participation and Outcomes?               15


   After manual corrections, we used another Python script to automatically
   infer gender from the “single” images. This script uses the OpenCV library
   to automatically identify rectangular sections containing faces. Next, it uses
   pre-trained models created by Eidinger et al. [27] to classify each image
   as ‘man’ or ‘woman’. To correct misclassifications, we repeated our thumb-
   nail view-based manual inspection strategy. During this manual inspection
   phase, we also inspected the misclassifications in a full-scale view, as some
   images could be only determined after careful inspections. Moreover, we
   also noticed many avatars are photos of children. During our manual in-
   spections, we moved avatars with children seemingly less than 13 years old
   to the ‘Neutral’ directory based on an assumption that such photos are of
   someone other than the account holder. We choose 13 years as the threshold
   since GitHub policy requires a user to be at least 13 years old. During our
   manual inspections, we also noticed avatars using photos of famous singers,
   actors, cartoon characters, well-known internet memes, and athletes. We
   also categorized such avatars as ‘Neutrals’, as these avatars represent users’
   interests rather than themselves.
   Finally, we manually inspected all the avatars with multiple human faces.
   If an avatar includes only one person over 13 years of age, we assign that
   avatar to that person’s gender. For example, such a photo could be a fa-
   ther with his son/daughter and this account belongs to the father. How-
   ever, if multiple persons over 13 years were present, we classified avatars
   as ‘Neutrals’. While our gender inference for avatars were extremely time-
   consuming, we resorted to this process due to the unavailability of another
   reliable alternative. To ensure the reliability of our results, we wanted to
   ensure very high accuracy in this step. From GHTorrent, we identified a
   total of 10,081 women, 143,094 men, and the remaining with either iden-
   ticons or neutral avatars. Our replication package also includes examples
   from each category [81]. We used the same approach to infer genders from
   Gerrit avatars as well. However, among ten Gerrit projects, four projects:
   LibreOffice, Qt, Whamcloud, and Wikimedia do not use any profile avatar.
   Therefore, we skipped this step for those four projects.
3. Step 3: Semi-automated resolution For each user, we inferred their gender
   from two sources: first from full name and location and second from profile
   avatar. If both of these results match, we labeled a person’s gender as
   that. If either of the results is ‘unknown’ and the other one suggests man/
   woman, we assign that gender to the user. If the results conflict, we check
   the profiles manually and conduct an additional investigation using social
   media (i.e., LinkedIn and Facebook) to decide. If both name and avatar-
   based resolutions fail for a person, we assign ‘Unknown’ to that user.
4. Step 4: Manual search We conducted manual investigations of the unre-
   solved profiles (i.e., ‘Unknown’ at the end of Step 3) to determine genders.
   First, we exclude all the users that do not list at least one of the following in-
   formation: name, email address, blog, and Twitter. For the remaining users,
   we used an approach similar to Bosu et al. [15]. However, since Google+
16                                                                                      Sultana et al.


Table 4 Demographics of gender in Gerrit and GitHub datasets
 Project                         Men              Women             Men using        Women using
                                                                         GNPs                GNPs
 Android                  2896 (86.7%)         444 (13.3%)         1619 (55.9%)         306 (68.9%)
 Chromium OS             4,466 (83.3%)         897 (16.7%)        3,347 (74.9%)         728 (81.2%)
 Couchbase                 265 (88.3%)          35 (11.7%)          160 (60.4%)          28 (80.0%)
 Go                        313 (93.4%)           22 (5.6%)          188 (60.1%)          18 (81.8%)
 LibreOffice‡              518 (90.9%)           52 (9.1%)                    -                   -
 oVirt                     258 (88.4%)          34 (11.6%)          208 (80.6%)          29 (85.3%)
 Qt‡                       777 (95.3%)           38 (4.7%)                    -                   -
 Typo3                     392 (95.2%)           20 (4.8%)          195 (49.7%)          13 (65.0%)
 Whamcloud‡                145 (91.8%)           13 (8.2%)                    -                   -
 Wikimedia‡                637 (81.3%)         147 (18.7%)                    -                   -
 Github(S)               9,064 (94.1%)          566 (5.9%)        2,929 (32.3%)         277 (48.9%)
 Github(M)              26,279 (93.3%)        1,886 (6.7%)        8,810 (33.5%)         934 (49.5%)
 Github(L)              49,561 (93.2%)        3,604 (6.8%)       17,002 (34.3%)       1,853 (51.4%)
 Github(XL)            121,765 (92.7%)        9,639 (8.5%)       42,241 (34.7%)       4,887 (50.7%)
 Total:            217,336 (92.6%)        17,397 (7.4%)        76,699 (35.3%)       9,073 (52.2%)
 ‡ - since these projects do not provide an option to use avatar, we consider all profiles
 as gender neutrals.


     is no longer available, we replaced it with Google People API5 . Moreover,
     since the manual resolution is extremely time-consuming, we also excluded
     users, who had opened less than five CRs. In the first step, we searched for
     Google people profiles using email addresses to identify photos. If a per-
     son is not found or we cannot decide based on the associated photo, we
     search for that person on LinkedIn using their name and email domain. If
     a Twitter account or a personal website is listed on a person’s profile, we
     also inspected those.
     Although our gender resolution steps are time-consuming, we were able to
     achieve a high-resolution rate. For GitHub, we were able to resolve 71.5%
     users. For the GitHub users, who have opened at least 5 PRs and have
     emails listed on their profiles, we resolved 89.6%. For Gerrit-based projects,
     overall we achieved 98.8% success for non-casual developers. Since our study
     is limited to investigating gender bias in men and women, we removed user
     ids for whom we assigned ’Unknown’ as gender. For data analysis, we coded
     ‘0’ for men and ‘1’ for women.
    Table 4 shows the demographics of gender for the Gerrit projects and four
groups of GitHub projects. The ratio of women varies between 4-19%, where
the highest ratio is seen in Wikimedia. Among the GitHub groups, the ratio
of women increases as the project size grows. Overall, we found 7.4% women.

4.4.2 Gender neutral profile (isGenderNeutral)

Prior study shows that women often use gender-neutral profiles (GNP) to
avoid unwanted attention. Terrell et al.also showed that women have higher
acceptance rates when their gender is not identifiable. To test our formulated
hypotheses: H1.2, H2.2, H3.2, we need to identify if a profile is gender neutral.
 5   https://developers.google.com/people
How Do Gender Biases Affect Code Review Participation and Outcomes?               17


If users’ genders are identifiable from their avatars, we consider them as gender
identifiable profiles (GIP) and put down 0’s as the values for isGenderNeu-
tral variable. Otherwise, we considered their profiles as gender-neutral profiles
(GNP) and put 1’s for this variable.
    We like to mention that our GNP /GIP resolution strategy is different from
Terrell et al.’s. To identify if a profile uses identicon, Terrell et al. checked for
image dimensions using ImageMagick. If a profile used an identicon, and the
gender inference tool classified its user name as ‘Unknown’, they used a panel
of three people to look into the login and user name for 10 seconds to determine
whether they can reliably guess the gender. However, they added this manual
step only for 3,000 randomly selected profiles. During our study, we noticed two
shortcomings of this strategy. First, we noticed many custom avatars with the
same dimension as identicons. Therefore, a non-negligible number of identicons
identified based on this strategy are false positives. Second, custom avatars can
also be gender-neutral (e.g., pets, celebrities, kids, inanimate objects). Third,
inferring gender from a name also requires familiarity with the origin. For
example, most people from the Indian subcontinent may easily infer the name
‘Sayma’ belongs to a woman. However, people from different origins may have
difficulties. Moreover, even though a name-to-gender inference tool can reliably
guess gender from a name, CR participants are less likely to use such tools
during their collaborations. Therefore, to avoid such limitations, we considered
only avatars as sources to identify gendered profiles, i.e., we marked a profile
as GIP only if we can reliably identify its owner’s gender using the associated
avatar. This step is similar for both Gerrit and GitHub datasets. Since four
of the Gerrit projects (i.e., LibreOffice, Qt, Whamcloud, and WikiMedia) do
not use profile avatars, values for this variable are 0’s for all of the users from
those projects. Table 4 also shows the distributions of developers from various
projects using GNPs. We also noticed the majority of women (52.2%) prefer
GNPs, while almost two third men prefer GIPs.



4.4.3 Commit experience (totalCommit)

For each CR /PR, we count code commit experience as the number of prior
code commits for the current project. We wrote a SQL script to compute this
attribute.



4.4.4 Author tenure months (tenure)

We measured the tenure of a developer from the difference between the times-
tamp of the first submitted CR and the most recently submitted ones for a
particular project. We first computed the differences in terms of the num-
ber of days. After dividing by 30, we take the ceiling values to convert those
differences into the number of months.
18                                                                    Sultana et al.


4.4.5 Review experience (revExp)

For each CR /PR, we measure the review experience of a participant by com-
puting the number of distinct CRs that he/she has participated in, where
he/she was not the owner (or creator of PR on GitHub). We wrote a SQL
script to compute this attribute.

4.4.6 Patch size (patchSize)

We first mined code churn for individual files (i.e., file code churn under a CR.
We computed patch size using the following formula:
   patchSize= n i=1 f ile code churni , where a CR includes n files and f ile code churni
              P

denotes the code churn of ith file.

4.4.7 Cyclomatic complexity (cyCmplx)

We wrote a python script that downloads all files included in a CR and uses
the Lizard python library [97] to compute cyclomatic complexity for each file.
For the regression model, we compute the average cyclomatic complexities of
all files included in a CR.

4.4.8 Number of patchset (numPatch)

For Gerrit, this variable denotes the number of review iterations made before
a decision was made for a CR. For GitHub, this variable denotes the number
of commits included in a PR.

4.4.9 Is bug fix (isBugFix)

We used a heuristic-based approach similar to the one proposed by Zafar et
al. to identify whether a CR is for a bug fix [98]. To identify CRs with bug
fixes, we checked the description of the CR for links to bug repositories. Every
Gerrit-based project uses a different style to link bug reports. We empiri-
cally investigated each Gerrit project to create regular expressions to identify
its bug links. For example, CRs associated with bug fixes for oVirt include
‘Bug-Url: https://bugzilla.redhat.com/([0-9]+)’ in descriptions. For GitHub-
based projects, we first marked bug-associated labels using a regular expression
search. Such labels typically include keywords such as ‘bug’ and ‘defect’. We
checked if a PR is linked with an issue and that issue is assigned one of the
bug-related labels.

4.4.10 Number of files (fileCount)

We wrote a Python script using the Pygithub library [44] to mine the number
of files included in a PR. Our Gerrit miner also mines this information for all
CRs.
How Do Gender Biases Affect Code Review Participation and Outcomes?          19


4.4.11 Number of directories (dirCount)

We wrote an SQL query to extract directory names from file paths. Another
query was used to compute the number of distinct directories in a CR.


4.4.12 Comment volume (cmtVolume)

We wrote a Python script that downloads exact versions of all the files included
in a CR and computes the number of lines (nLOC) and the number of lines
that are comments (nCOM) using the Lizard library [97]. We compute the
average comment volume based on the following formula.
                       nCOMi
               1
                 ∗ n
                  P
   cmtV olume= n   i=1 nLOC    i
  where a CR includes n files and nCOMi and nLOCi denote nCOM and
nLOC of the ith file respectively.


4.4.13 Ratio of new files (ratioNew)

Gerrit miner already mined whether a file was new or modified. Our Python
script mined the same for all the PRs. We wrote a SQL script to compute the
total number of files (i.e., numNewFile) that are new in a review. We compute
this attribute as: ratioN ew= numN    ewF ile
                                f ileCount




4.4.14 Acceptance (isAccepted)

Gerrit miner downloads the status of CRs as one of the following: ‘New’,
‘Merged’, or ‘Abandoned’. We excluded all the CRs with the status ‘New’,
since those are ongoing. For the reviews with status marked as ‘Merged’ and
‘Abandoned, we set isAccepted =1 and isAccepted =0 respectively.
    For each PR, we mined timestamps for ‘merged at’ and ‘closed at’. We
excluded open PRs (i.e. ‘closed at’ = NULL). We noticed that if a PR is closed
without merging, its ‘merged at’ is set as NULL. Therefore, for the PRs with
‘merged at’ = NULL, we set isAccepted =0. For the remaining PRs, we set
isAccepted =1.


4.4.15 Review interval (reviewInterval)

For each PR, we computed the number of seconds between the time when the
PR was created (i.e. created at) and the time when that PR was closed
(i.e., closed at). Similarly, for Gerrit-based reviews, we used differences be-
tween created and last updated. By dividing the review interval by 3600, we
computed the review interval in terms of hours.
20                                                                  Sultana et al.


4.4.16 Code review participation (avgReviewPerMonth):

For each reviewer, we computed the average number of CRs over their tenure
with a project. This variable is the dependent variable for RQ3. We take
monthly snapshots of this variable and five independent variables (i.e., par-
ticipant characteristics) over the tenure of a participant. Such snapshots are
tuples listing (tenure, gender, isGenderNeutral, totalCommit,
reviewExp, avgReviewPerMonth). We took monthly snapshots instead of one
single average number since the former allows us to investigate whether women
had different CR participation trajectories during their tenure than men. For
example, women may start slow in terms of review participation but once
recognized may catch up.
    To illustrate our computation, let us assume that Alice has been contribut-
ing to the Go project for 4 months. She is a woman with a gender-neutral
profile. During the months of her tenure, she committed 5, 3, 7, and 9 changes
respectively. Her number of CR participation during these months is 2, 4, 3,
and 7 respectively. Therefore, her average CRs are 2, 3, 3, and 4 respectively.
To build our regression model, we include four data points for Alice, which
are : ( 1, Woman, Yes, 5, 2, 2), ( 2, Woman, Yes, 8, 9, 3), ( 3, Woman, Yes,
15, 9, 3), ( 4, Woman, Yes, 24, 16, 4).


4.5 Regression model training and analysis

We use multivariate regression modeling techniques to evaluate our hypothe-
ses. Linear regression and logistic regression are commonly used to inspect re-
lations among one dependent variable and one or more independent variables
when the dependent variable is scalar and binary respectively [10]. To develop
Code acceptance models, we use logistic regression, since the dependent vari-
able isAccepted is dichotomous. To analyze Code Review Interval and Code
Review Participation, we use linear regressions, since the dependent variables
(i.e., reviewInterval and avgReviewPerMonth) are scalars. We have grouped
the independent variables into two categories: i) contributor characteristics
and ii) changeset characteristics. While both groups of independent variables
are used to train Code acceptance and Code Review Interval models, we use
only the ‘contributor characteristics’ group to train Code Review Participa-
tion models. Since changeset characteristics are specific to a particular code
change, those may not be influential in deciding how many reviews a person
participates in during a period. Table 1 describes the variables for our models.
    Recent SE studies [12, 55] inspired us to adopt the models’ construction
and analysis approach proposed by Harrell Jr. to validate our proposed hy-
potheses [39]. Harrell’s approach enables us to formulate non-linear relation-
ships among variables while being aware of the possibility of overfitting (i.e.,
where the model performs very well for the training dataset but poorly other-
wise) [39]. We detail our five-step model development and analysis approach
in the following.
How Do Gender Biases Affect Code Review Participation and Outcomes?          21


Step 1: Normality adjustment

We found skewed distributions for three independent variables (i.e., totalCommit,
revExp, and patchSize) and one dependent variable (i.e., reviewInterval.
Following recommendations from prior CR studies [55,86] to include such vari-
ables, we apply log transformations(i.e., loge (x)).

Step 2: Correlation and redundancy analysis

Before training regression models, we must assess multicollinearity, which oc-
curs when two or more independent variables are highly correlated with one
another in a regression model. Without such assessment, a model may not be
able to reliably determine the effects of individual independent variables [54].
We conduct correlation analysis among the independent variables of the mod-
els to identify highly correlated variables. We execute the Spearman rank
correlation tests between all pairs of independent variables (ρ) to construct
hierarchical overviews of the correlated variables. Among the variables resid-
ing in the same sub-hierarchy and having |ρ | < 0.7, we select only one for the
final regression model. Prior studies in software engineering also considered
0.7 as the threshold value for identifying redundant variables [55] [86] [12].
We repeated this step for each of the 14*6 = 84 regression models that we
trained. Figure 1 shows our variable clustering for our acceptance model from
the Go dataset. The red trend line indicates our cutoff correlation (i.e., 0.7).
If the cluster meeting point for two or more variables is below this trend line,
we select only one variable (i.e., the one with the highest correlation with
the dependent variable) from that cluster. In this example, fileCount and
dirCount are highly correlated. Among these two, we took only dirCount
for training this project’s regression model, since it has a higher correlation
with the dependent variable isAccepted. Similarly, from the correlated pair (
logRevExp, logTotalCommit ), we took only logRevExp. With the surviving
variables, we computed the variance inflation factor (VIF). None of the pre-
dictors have VIF greater than 2.5, suggesting that multicollinearity was not a
substantial threat.

Step 3: Modeling non-linear relationships

Restricted cubic splines (RCS) are often used during regression modeling to
model non-linear relationships between explanatory variables and outcome [26].
In this transformation strategy, the range of values of an independent variable
is split up, with “knots” defining the end of one segment and the start of the
next. During regression, if more degrees of freedom or independent variables
are used than the dataset can afford, regression models may overfit. An overfit-
ted model fails to show actual relationships among dependent and independent
variables. We calculate the budget for total degrees of freedom for our code
review dataset, following Harrell Jr. ’s recommendations of at most n/15 total
degrees of freedom, where n is the number of rows in a dataset [40, 41]. For
22                                                                                                                                                    Sultana et al.

             0.0
             0.2




                                                                                                                                           isBugFix



                                                                                                                                                      Gender



                                                                                                                                                               isGenderNeutral
                   numPatch
             0.4




                              ratioNew
Spearman ρ

             0.6




                                         logPatchSize




                                                                               tenure




                                                                                                                     cyCmplx
             0.8




                                                                                                                               cmtVolume
                                                        fileCount



                                                                    dirCount




                                                                                        logRevExp



Fig. 1 Variable clustering for the Go project for training code acceptance model                    logTotalCommit




example, our smallest dataset (i.e., Whamcloud) includes 21,555 rows after
excluding unresolved participants. Therefore, we can allocate at most 1,437
degrees of freedom without overfitting. The maximum number of degrees of
freedom allocated for model training was 27. Therefore, our models do not
have overfitting threats.
    However, we cannot allocate additional degrees of freedom to dichotomous
variables such as Gender, isGenderNeutral, and isBugFix. For the remain-
ing independent variables that survived multicollinearity analysis, we allocated
four degrees of freedom using the rcs method from the rms R package.

Step 4: Training regression models

Equations (1), (2), and (3) denote regression models for Code acceptance,
Code review Interval, and Code review participation respectively. To test the
interaction between Gender and isGenderNeutral (i.e., H1.2, H2.2, and
H3.2), we replaced Gender and isGenderNeutral factors with Gender *
isGenderNeutral, a four-level interaction factor in each of the following three
equations. We use the lm method from the R stats package to fit the mod-
els. Since theCode acceptance model has binary outcomes, we use binomial
linking function. For the remaining two models, we use gaussian aka ‘iden-
tity’ linking. However, these equations differed among the projects, if some
variables were found to be redundant during Step 2.

  isAccepted ∼ rcs(log(totalCommit), 4) + rcs(log(patchSize), 4)
       + rcs(log(revExp), 4) + rcs(tenure, 4) + rcs(cyCmplx, 4)
       + rcs(numPatch, 4) + isBugFix + rcs(dirCount, 4) + rcs(cmtVolume, 4)
       + rcs(ratioNew, 4) + rcs(fileCount, 4) + Gender + isGenderNeutral
                                                                                                                                                                                 (1)
How Do Gender Biases Affect Code Review Participation and Outcomes?           23




log(reviewInterval) ∼ rcs(log(totalCommit), 4) + rcs(log(patchSize), 4)
+ rcs(log(revExp), 4) + rcs(tenure, 4) + rcs(cyCmplx, 4)
+ rcs(numPatch, 4) + isBugFix + rcs(dirCount, 4) + rcs(cmtVolume, 4)
+ rcs(ratioNew, 4) + rcs(fileCount, 4) + Gender + isGenderNeutral
                                                                             (2)

avgReviewPerMonth ∼ rcs(tenure, 4) + rcs(log(totalCommit), 4) + Gender
+ rcs(log(revExp), 4) + isGenderNeutral
                                                                             (3)

Step 4: Assessment of model performance

There are several metrics to assess the goodness of fit for regression models.
In this study, we use Veall and Zimmerman Pseudo R2 [91] for the logistic
regression models, since prior research [78] found this measure having closer
correspondence to ordinary least square R2 . Veall and Zimmerman’s index is
defined as follows:

         2          2[LL(N ull) − LL(F ull)]             2LL(N ull) − N
        Rvz =                                        .
                 2[LL(N ull) − LL(F ull)] + N              2LL(F ull)
. Where LL(f ull) is the log-likelihood of the full model and LL(null) represents
the same for a model eliminating all the independent variables (i.e., intercept-
only model).
   For linear regression models, we measure Adjusted R2 [96] to assess good-
ness of fit.

Step 5: Interpretation of results:

For the logistic regression model (i.e., H1), we compute the Odds Ratio (OR) to
estimate the impact of our variables of interest (i.e., Gender, and isGenderNeutral).
OR represents the odds of an outcome will occur with the presence of a factor,
compared to the odds of the same outcome occurring in its absence [32]. OR
is very useful in estimating the impact if a variable of interest is dichotomous.
OR = 1 indicates no impact of an independent variable on the dependent vari-
able. A value of OR > 1 indicates that, with the increase of that particular
independent variable, the dependent variable has higher odds to occur, and
OR < 1 indicates the opposite.
    For the linear regression models (i.e., H2 and H3), interpretation is more
straightforward. For these models, the regression coefficient of an indepen-
dent variable indicates the number of changes to the dependent variable with
its 1 unit of change. A positive coefficient indicates positive impacts on the
dependent variable and vice versa. Moreover, a larger absolute value for an
independent variable’s coefficient indicates a larger impact.
24                                                                       Sultana et al.


Table 5 Acceptance rates for men, women with gender identifiable profiles (GIP) and
gender-neutral profiles (GNP)
      Project             Overall                GIP                 GNP
                      Men    Women       Men      Women      Men      Women
      Android         86.48     81.26    84.80       86.67   87.98       77.98
      Chromium OS     86.34     87.40    87.32       85.26   86.06       87.79
      Couchbase       87.15     86.35    88.02       79.28   86.31       86.82
      Go              88.36     85.94    91.40       75.02   85.85       91.12
      Libreoffice     92.67     83.55       −           −       −           −
      oVirt           86.85     85.23    87.28       88.63   86.69       83.65
      Qt              83.95     87.77       −           −       −           −
      Typo3           91.33     90.20    91.87       91.40   90.02       80.12
      Whamcloud       75.12     75.86       −           −       −           −
      WikiMedia       91.07     88.52       −           −       −           −
      Github(S)       86.34     86.14    86.78       86.86   85.36       85.55
      Github(M)       78.46     82.40    77.92       83.35   79.57       81.21
      Github(L)       80.04     82.81    79.54       84.79   81.02       79.76
      Github(XL)      69.98     73.65    71.20       76.52   67.76       71.19


5 Results

We present the results of our study in this section for the proposed research
questions. For each question, we address analysis results and their interpreta-
tion in terms of evaluation metrics. As our study is limited to men and women,
bias can work in two directions. If men are favored, we colored that attribute
with blue and if women are favored, we colored the cell with pink.


5.1 Gender vs. Code acceptance (RQ1)

 RQ1: Do the genders of the contributors influence acceptance of their code
 changes?

    Table 5 shows the average acceptance rates for groups formed based on
gender, GIP, and GNP. Acceptance rates between men and women differ by
1-9% among the projects. We noticed the largest difference in the LibreOffice
project. Similar to Terrell et al. [84], we noticed between 2-5% higher accep-
tance rates for women across three of the four GitHub project groups. For the
GNP groups, 11 out of the 14 cases indicate women with GNPs having lower
acceptance rates than women with GIPs; while three projects (i.e., Chromium
OS, Couchbase, and Go) indicate the opposite. However, in contrast to Ter-
rell et al., we did not find women with GNPs having higher acceptance rates
on GitHub. However, this difference may be due to our different heuristics to
determine whether a profile is a GNP.
    Table 6 shows the results of our code acceptance logistic regression mod-
els. The ‘Pseudo R2 ’ column in Table 6 shows the performances of the models
estimated using Veall and Zimmermann index [91]. Columns 3-7 in Table 6
indicate the measure of association between our factors of interest and code
acceptance based on OR. We also mark the statistical significance of those
How Do Gender Biases Affect Code Review Participation and Outcomes?                                    25


Table 6 Do gender/gender-neutral profiles of the contributors influence acceptance of their
code changes?
                                               Values indicate {Odds ratio}p−value
 Project            Pseudo       Gender       Neutral     Women         Men          Women
                    R2                        profile    with GIP    with GNP      with GNP
 Android             0.172         1.08∗∗∗    0.85∗∗∗    1.42∗∗∗    0.87∗∗∗        0.66∗∗∗
 Chromium OS         0.419         0.96∗∗∗    0.96∗∗∗    0.84∗∗∗    0.95∗∗∗        1.17∗∗∗
 Couchbase           0.319         0.73∗∗∗    0.84∗∗∗    0.53∗∗∗    0.83∗∗∗        1.41∗
 Go                  0.552         0.62∗∗∗    1.09∗      0.17∗∗∗    0.75∗∗∗        8.73∗∗∗
 LibreOffice         0.459         0.51 ∗∗∗     −           −              −                 −
 oVirt               0.133         0.81∗∗∗      1.03        1.02           1.05∗             0.72∗∗∗
 Qt                  0.060         1.55 ∗∗∗     −           −              −                 −
 Typo3               0.269         0.95         0.99        0.99           1                 0.83
 Whamcloud           0.380         0.84 ∗       −           −              −                 −
 WikiMedia           0.057         0.92 ∗∗∗     −           −              −                 −
 Github (S)          0.107         1.15∗∗       0.88∗∗∗     1.23∗∗         0.89∗∗∗           0.87
 Github (M)          0.077         1.24∗∗∗      1.12∗∗∗     1.38∗∗∗        1.15∗∗∗           0.79∗∗∗
 Github (L)          0.087         1.22∗∗∗      1.06∗∗∗     1.41∗∗∗        1.09∗∗∗           0.71∗∗∗
 Github (XL)         0.052         1.27∗∗∗      0.83∗∗∗     1.34∗∗∗        0.84∗∗∗           0.9∗∗∗
 Cells in blue backgrounds represent significant biases favoring men and cells in pink
 backgrounds represent biases favoring women. *** , **, and * represent statistical
 significance at p< 0.001, p< 0.01, and p< 0.05 respectively. No values among columns
 indicate statistically insignificance. For the gender neutral hypotheses test (i.e., H1.2),
  gray background suggests a significant higher odds of women with neutral profiles
 getting their code accepted.




associations using three markers, where *** =⇒ p< 0.001, ** =⇒ p< 0.01,
and * =⇒ p< 0.05. Since we code men with 0’s and women with 1’s, an OR
> 1 (i.e., Gender column) implies that the probability of a CR’s acceptance
increases when gender changes from 0 to 1 (i.e., Man to woman) while other
factors remaining unchanged and vice versa. Similarly, an OR > 1 for Neutral
profile indicates higher odds of a CR’s acceptance with GNPs. To investi-
gate interactions between the two key independent factors (i.e., gender and
GNP), we trained a second regression model for each project, where we re-
place Gender and isGenderNeutral with Gender * isGenderNeutral. This
interaction factor has four levels indicating i) men with GIPs, ii) women with
GIPs, iii) men with GNPs, and iv) women with GNPs. The second regres-
sion model for a project has almost identical goodness of fit as the first one,
as we are only replacing two dichotomous variables with a four-level product
variable while preserving other factors. These interaction models help us to
identify if GNPs /GIPs have different associations with code acceptance for
men and women. For these interaction models, we consider men with GIPs
as the reference group. Therefore, the OR values reported in columns 5-7 of
Table 6 indicate odds of code acceptance with respect to men with GIPs. For
example, for the Android project, the odds of code acceptance for women with
GIPs and women with GNPs are 1.42 and 0.66 respectively with respect to
men with GIPs, if other factors remain unchanged.
26                                                                 Sultana et al.


5.1.1 Results of H1.1

Gerrit dataset: Results from Table 6 indicate that significant gender biases
exist among nine out of the ten projects, with Typo3 being the only exception.
Hence, nine projects support H1.1a , and the null hypothesis (H1.10 ) cannot be
rejected for the remaining one. Based on OR values, seven out of those nine
projects favor men. Three (i.e., Couchbase, Go, and LibreOffice) out of those
seven projects indicate that women have less than three-fourths odds of getting
code accepted with respect to men, even if all other factors remain unchanged.
On the other hand, two projects (i.e., Android and Qt) show significantly
higher odds favoring women.
GitHub dataset: Our results also suggest significant gender biases among all
four GitHub groups (i.e., support for H1.1a ). The OR values suggest signifi-
cantly higher odds of acceptance for PRs submitted by women on GitHub.


5.1.2 Results of H1.2

 Gerrit dataset: As we have already indicated, we computed the isGenderNeutral
attribute only for six projects, since the remaining four projects do not support
avatars. OR values under the ‘Neutral profile’ column suggest that developers
with GNPs have significantly lower odds of getting code accepted in three out
of those six projects, while only one project (i.e., Go) indicates the opposite.
OR values under Woman with GIP indicate that women from this group have
significantly lower odds of acceptance than men with GIPs in three projects
(i.e., Chromium OS, Couchbase, and Go), while Android shows the opposite
correlation.
    All six projects, except Typo3, indicate significant differences in accep-
tance rates between men with GIPs and men with GNPs (i.e., supporting
H1.2a ). Men with GNPs have decreased odds of code acceptance in Android,
Chromium OS, Couchbase, and Typo3, but have increased odds in oVirt.
    Our comparisons between women with GIPs and women with GNPs indi-
cate significant differences (i.e., support for H12.a ) in five projects. In three
projects (i.e., Chromium OS, Couchbase, and Go), women with GNPs had sig-
nificantly higher odds of acceptance with respect to women with GIPs. Women
with GNPs also have significantly higher acceptance rates than women with
GIPs among these three projects (Table 5. Therefore, GNPs increase the odds
of acceptance for women in three projects. Surprisingly, the odds are almost
eight times higher in Go. Our further investigation found, most of the ex-
perienced women from Go prefer using GNPs, while less experienced women
use GIPs. This particular difference between experienced and less-experienced
women in avatar selection results in surprisingly higher odds of acceptance for
women with GNPs. While we do not speculate on the underlying reason for
selecting GNPs, interviews of women from Go may shed more light. On the
other hand, we noticed the opposite association in two projects (i.e., Android,
and oVirt), as women with GNPs have lower odds of acceptance than both
How Do Gender Biases Affect Code Review Participation and Outcomes?                     27


men with GIPs and women with GIPs. In summary, five6 out of the projects
show significant differences in acceptance rates between men/women with and
without gender-identifiable profiles and therefore support H1.2a .
GitHub dataset: We also noticed significant associations between GNP and
code acceptance among all four GitHub groups. However, OR values under
‘Neutral profile’ suggest that among the projects belonging to S and XL
groups, participants with GNPs have lower odds of acceptance than partic-
ipants with GIPs. On the contrary, projects belonging to M and L groups
show the opposite. Results from our interaction regression models suggest that
women with GIPs have significantly higher odds of acceptance than men with
GIPs across all four GitHub groups. Women with GNPs have lower odds than
men with GIPs in projects belonging to three of the GitHub groups (i.e., M,
L, and XL). We also noticed significant differences between men/women with
GIPs and GNPs across all four groups and therefore supports for H1.2a . For
women, GNPs significantly decreased the odds of code acceptance across all
four groups. However, for men, GNP is associated with significantly increased
odds in two groups (i.e., M, and L) but has opposite odds in the two remaining
groups.

 We accept H1.1a for nine out of the ten Gerrit projects and fail to reject the
 null hypothesis H1.10 for the remaining one (i.e., Typo3). We tested H1.2
 for six Gerrit projects. Among those H1.2a is supported for five projects and
 not supported for the remaining one (i.e., Typo3). We also found support
 for both H1.1a and H1.2a across all four GitHub project groups.



5.2 Gender vs. code review interval (RQ2)

 RQ2: Do the genders of the contributors influence code review intervals
 for their code changes?

Figure 2 shows the distribution for review interval hours for men and women
using bean plots. We log-transformed review interval hours to account for
skewed distributions. Table 7 shows correlations of gender and GNPs with
code review intervals based on our linear regression models. Since the de-
pendent variable for these models is log-transformed, exponentiating the co-
efficients yields the multiplication factor for that variable. For example, in
the Android project the coefficient for the Gender = 0.112. Therefore, when
Gender changes from 0 to 1 (i.e., man to woman), code review intervals increase
e0.112 =1.12 times. In Table 7, a Delay >1 indicates higher code review intervals
with the presence of a factor and vice versa. We also expressed the fit of the
model for each project with Adjusted R2 . Similar to H1, we trained a second
  6 For our second sub-hypotheses (i.e, H1.2 , H2.2 , and H3.2 ), we consider a project
                                              a       a            a
as supporting if either of the two gender groups indicates differences between members with
and without GIPs.
28                                                                                                                                                                 Sultana et al.




                         1 yr
                        6 mo
                        3 mo
Review interval (log)




                        1 mo


                        1 wk




                        10 hr




                         1 hr
                                                                                                        Male                Female




                                                                                                                                              oVirt
                                Android


                                          Chromium OS


                                                        Couchbase


                                                                    Github(L)


                                                                                Github(M)


                                                                                            Github(S)


                                                                                                          Github(XL)


                                                                                                                       Go


                                                                                                                                LibreOffice




                                                                                                                                                      Qt




                                                                                                                                                                   Whamcloud


                                                                                                                                                                               Wikimedia
                                                                                                                                                           Typo3
Fig. 2 Code review intervals: Men vs. Women. The middle line in a bean plot represents
the median review interval for the associated group.

regression model for each project, where Gender and isGenderNeutral is
replaced with Gender * isGenderNeutral. As men with GIPs are the ref-
erence group in these models, the values reported in columns 5-7 of Table 7
indicate a delay multiplier with respect to men with GIPs. For example, for the
Chromium OS project, the delay multiplier for women with GIPs and women
with GNPs are 1.07 and 0.77 respectively, with respect to men with GIPs.

5.2.1 Results of H2.1

Gerrit dataset: Seven out of the ten projects show significant differences in CR
intervals based on Gender and thereby supporting H2.1a . For the remaining
three projects (i.e., Chromium OS, oVirt, and Wikimedia) the null hypothe-
ses (H2.10 ) cannot be rejected. CRs submitted by women encounter signifi-
cantly higher delays than men among three projects (Android, LibreOffice,
and Typo3). On the other hand, the opposite is true for Couchbase, Go, Qt,
and Whamcloud.
GitHub dataset: Our results for all four GitHub datasets support H2.1a , with
women having significantly lower CR intervals than men in all cases.

5.2.2 Results of H2.2

Gerrit dataset: Our results also suggest significant differences between develop-
ers with and without GNPs. Four of the projects indicate additional delays for
authors with GNPs than authors with GIPs. On the other hand, two projects
(i.e., oVirt and Typo3) indicate shorter CR intervals for GNP groups. De-
lay values under Woman with GIP indicate that women from this group have
How Do Gender Biases Affect Code Review Participation and Outcomes?                           29


Table 7 Do gender/gender-neutral profiles of the contributors influence code review inter-
vals for their code changes?
                                      Values indicate {delay multiplier}p−value
 Project           Adj.     Gender     Neutral      Women         Men          Women
                   R2                  profile     with GIP    with GNP      with GNP
 Android          0.433    1.12∗∗∗     1.04∗∗∗     1.11∗∗∗    1.04∗∗∗        1.01
 Chromium OS      0.235    1           1.07∗∗∗     1.24∗∗∗    1.1∗∗∗         0.77∗∗∗
 Couchbase        0.312    0.85∗∗∗     1.16∗∗∗     2.02∗∗∗    1.17∗∗∗        0.39∗∗∗
 Go               0.287    0.73∗∗∗     1.13∗∗∗     0.72∗∗∗    1.13∗∗∗        1.02
 LibreOffice      0.186    2 ∗∗∗      −             −              −                −
 oVirt            0.398    1.01       0.96∗∗        0.78∗∗∗        0.93∗∗∗          1.45∗∗∗
 Qt               0.107    0.54 ∗∗∗   −             −              −                −
 Typo3            0.183    1.13∗      0.76∗∗∗       1.05           0.75∗∗∗          1.84∗∗∗
 Whamcloud        0.268    0.77 ∗∗∗   −             −              −                −
 Wikimedia        0.265    1.01       −             −              −                −
 Github (S)       0.091    0.8∗∗∗     1.47∗∗∗       0.72∗∗∗        1.45∗∗∗          1.23∗
 Github (M)       0.092    0.89∗∗∗    1.03∗∗        0.93∗∗         1.04∗∗∗          0.91∗∗
 Github (L)       0.099    0.85∗∗∗    1.15∗∗∗       0.74∗∗∗        1.12∗∗∗          1.39∗∗∗
 Github (XL)      0.109    0.97∗∗∗    1.15∗∗∗       0.89∗∗∗        1.14∗∗∗          1.18∗∗∗
 Cells in blue backgrounds represent men with significantly lower review intervals and
 cells in pink backgrounds represent the same for women. For the p value columns,
 *** , **, and * represent values < 0.001, < < 0.01, and < 0.5 respectively. No values
 among p columns indicate statistically insignificance. For the gender neutral hypothe-
 ses test (i.e., H2.2), gray background suggests significant lower review intervals for
 women with gender neutral profiles.


significantly longer CR intervals than men with GIPs in three projects (i.e.,
Android, Chromium OS, and Couchbase), while Go and Ovirt show the op-
posite association.
    All six projects indicate significant differences in CR intervals between men
with GIPs and men with GNPs (i.e., supporting H2.2a ). For men, GNP is as-
sociated with significantly longer delays in four projects and significantly the
opposite in the remaining two. Interestingly, although GNP is associated with
shorter review intervals for men from oVirt and Typo3, this factor shows the
opposite association for women from the same projects. Comparisons between
women with GIPs and women with GNPs suggest significantly lower CR inter-
vals for the GNP group in two projects (i.e., Chromium OS, and Couchbase)
and the opposite in two (i.e., Typo3 and oVirt). Therefore, H2.2a is supported
for women from four projects. In summary, all six projects support H2.2a . with
either men or women showing significant differences in CR intervals based on
GIP selection.
GitHub dataset: We also noticed significant associations between GNP and CR
intervals among all four GitHub groups. Participants with GNPs were more
likely to encounter longer CR intervals than participants with GIPs. Similarly,
women with GNPs had significantly longer CR intervals than men with GIPs
among three of the four GitHub groups. The remaining GitHub group (i.e.,
M) shows significantly shorter CR intervals for such women.
    Men with GNPs had significantly longer CR intervals than men with GIPs
in all four groups (i.e., support for H2.2a ). Comparisons between women with
GIPs and GNPs suggest significantly longer CR intervals for the GNP group
30                                                                                                                                                         Sultana et al.


                                                                                 Gender                  Men           Women




               60
# of reviews




               40




               20




                0

                             id       OS          e
                                                           b(L
                                                              )           )           )             L)         Go               e     ir t   Qt      o3          d             ia
                      dro                    hb
                                                as                     b(M         b(S        b(X                           ffic    oV            Typ         lou         ed
                    An        mi
                                 um        uc           thu         thu         thu        thu                        reO                                   mc         kim
                                       Co             Gi          Gi          Gi         Gi                     Lib
                                                                                                                                                           a         Wi
                          hro                                                                                                                           Wh
                         C



Fig. 3 Distribution of review counts per month for men and women

in all cases except M. In aggregate, H2.2a is supported by all four GitHub
groups.

                Our results support H2.1a for seven out of the 10 Gerrit projects. How-
               ever, we fail to reject the null hypothesis H2.10 for three such projects
               (i.e., Typo3, oVirt, and Wikimedia). We found support for H2.2a in all six
               Gerrit-based projects allowing GIPs. We also found support for both H2.1a
               and H2.2a across all four GitHub project groups. GNPs are associated with
               significantly longer code review intervals in eight out of the 10 cases (i.e.,
               6 Gerrit-based, and 4 GitHub groups). However, women with GNPs had
               significantly shorter CR intervals in three of the cases – Chromium OS,
               Couchbase, and GitHub (M).


5.3 Gender vs. code review participation (RQ3)

               RQ3: Do the genders of the contributors influence their participation in
               code reviews?

    Figure 3 shows the distribution of CR participation for men and women.
The long-tailed distributions indicate that some of the individuals take signifi-
cantly higher review loads than usual during some monthly intervals. Figure 3
also indicates that median review participation from women is lower than men
in 12 out of the fourteen cases, where Go and Typo3 are exceptions.
    Table 7 shows correlations of gender and GNPs with CR participation
based on our linear regression models. Column Adj. R2 reports the goodness
of fit for the trained models. For these models, linear regression coefficients
How Do Gender Biases Affect Code Review Participation and Outcomes?                                 31


Table 8 Do gender/gender-neutral profiles of the contributors influence their participation
in code reviews?
                                  Values indicate {regression coefficient}p−value
 Project           Adj.   Gender      Neutral      Women            Men            Women
                  R2                  profile     with GIP       with GNP        with GNP
 Android          0.244   -1.6∗∗∗     0.58∗∗∗     -1.64∗∗∗      0.57∗∗∗          0.07
 Chromium OS      0.307   -2.14∗∗∗    -0.05       -3.43∗∗∗      -0.23            1.57∗∗∗
 Couchbase        0.386   -3.17∗∗∗    1.81∗∗∗     5.14∗∗∗       2.23∗∗∗          -9.49∗∗∗
 Go               0.419   -1.63∗      -1.06∗∗     -5.27∗∗       -1.26∗∗          4.35∗
 LibreOffice      0.343   -0.85       −           −             −                −
 oVirt            0.429   -3.5∗∗∗     -0.8∗       -14.05∗∗∗     -2.25∗∗∗         13.7∗∗∗
 Qt               0.574   -1.77 ∗     −           −             −                −
 Typo3            0.273   4.57∗∗∗     0.6         6.2∗∗∗        0.86             -5.69∗
 Whamcloud        0.224   -2.15 ∗     −           −             −                −
 Wikimedia        0.504   -4.23 ∗∗∗   −           −             −                −
 Github (S)       0.078   -0.63∗      0.62∗∗∗     -0.73         0.61∗∗∗          0.2
 Github (M)       0.094   -0.05       -0.42∗∗     0.86∗         -0.25            -1.92∗∗∗
 Github (L)       0.171   -0.7∗∗∗     -0.45∗∗∗    -1.22∗∗∗      -0.54∗∗∗         1.14∗∗∗
 Github (XL)      0.138   -1.25∗∗∗    -0.84∗∗∗    -1.61∗∗∗      -0.89∗∗∗         0.68∗
 Cells in blue backgrounds represent men with higher code review participation and cells in
  pink backgrounds represent the same for women. For the p| value columns, *** , **, and
 * represent values < 0.001, < < 0.01, and < 0.5 respectively. No values among p columns
 indicate statistically insignificance. For the gender neutral hypotheses test (i.e., H3.2), gray
 background suggests a significant higher number of code review participation from women
 with neutral profiles.



represent how CR participation per month changes if a factor changes from
0 to 1. A positive coefficient (Z ) value indicates a positive correlation with a
factor and vice versa. For example, in the Android project, the coefficient for
the Gender is -1.60. Therefore, if we change Gender from 0 to 1 (i.e., man to
woman) while keeping all other factors the same, monthly CR participation
reduces by 1.60. Similar to H1 and H2, we trained a second regression model for
each project by replacing Gender and isGenderNeutral with the interaction
term, Gender * isGenderNeutral.



5.3.1 Results of H3.1

Gerrit dataset: Nine out of the ten projects indicate significant gender biases
in CR participation and therefore support H3.1a . LibreOffice is the only excep-
tion, where the null hypotheses (H3.10 cannot be rejected. Eight out of those
nine projects indicate women review significantly lower numbers of CRs than
men from the same project. Women had significantly higher CR participation
only in Typo3.
GitHub dataset: We observe that men review in significantly higher numbers
of PRs than women in three out of the four groups. Only the M group is
an exception, where the difference is not statistically significant. Therefore,
H3.1a is supported for three groups and the null hypothesis (H3.10 ) cannot be
rejected for the remaining one.
32                                                                 Sultana et al.


5.3.2 Results of H3.2

Gerrit dataset: Our results also indicate a significant association between
CR participation and GNPs in four out of the six custom avatar-supporting
projects. While GNP has a positive association with CR participation in An-
droid and Couchbase, the opposite association is seen in Go and oVirt. Four
out of the six projects also suggest that women with GIPs have significantly
lower CR participation than men with GIPs belonging to the same project.
The remaining two projects (i.e., Couchbase, and Typo3) indicate the oppo-
site, where women with GIPs had significantly higher CR participation.
    Four out of the six projects, excluding Chromium OS and Typo3, indi-
cate significant differences in CR participation between men with GIPs and
men with GNPs (i.e., supporting H3.2a ). While GNP is associated with lower
CR participation for men in Go and oVirt, opposite associations are found in
Android and Couchbase. Comparisons between women with GIPs and women
with GNPs indicate significant differences in CR participation (i.e., support
for H3.2a ) among five projects, where Android is the only exception. Women
with GNPs have significantly higher CR participation than women with GIPs
in three projects (i.e., Chromium OS, Go, and oVirt), and the remaining two
projects ( i.e., Couchbase and Typo3) indicate the opposite. In summary, all
six projects support H3.2a with either men or women showing significant dif-
ferences in CR participation based on GIP selection.
GitHub dataset:
    Three GitHub groups except the S group indicate that participants with
GNPs were more likely to participate in a significantly lower number of code
reviews than participants with GIPs. While women with GIPs had significantly
lower CR participation than men with GIPs in two groups (i.e., L and XL, the
opposite trend is seen in the S group.
    Men with GIPs participate in significantly higher numbers of CRs than
men with GNPs among projects belonging to L and XL groups, while projects
belonging to S show an opposite trend. In contrast, women with GIPs had
significantly lower CR participation than women with GNPs in L and XL
groups, while the M group showed an opposite association. In summary, all
four GitHub groups show significant differences in CR participation between
men/women with and without gender-identifiable profiles and therefore sup-
port H3.2a .
 Our analyses found support for H3.1a in nine out of the ten Gerrit-based
 projects with Libreoffice being an exception. Three GitHub groups excluding
 the M group also support H3.1a . All six GIP-supporting Gerrit projects as
 well as all four GitHub groups also support H3.2a .


5.4 Results summary

Table 9 provides an overview of the gender biases identified among our datasets.
According to these results, gender biases are common during CRs/PRs. Re-
How Do Gender Biases Affect Code Review Participation and Outcomes?                    33


Table 9 Summary of the gender biases among 10 Gerrit datasets and 4 Github datasets.
The numbers under a gender indicates the number of groups had biases favoring that gender.
                                       Gerrit favoring            Github favoring
 Hypothesis
                                  # biases   Men    Women      #total  Men    Women
 Code acceptance: H1.1a                  9      7       2           4     0       4
 Review interval: H2.1a                  7      3       4           4     0       4
 Review participation: H3.1a             9      8       1           3     3       0

Table 10 Summary of the biases due to gender-neutral profiles among 6 Gerrit datasets
and 4 Github datasets. The numbers under a profile type indicates the number of cases with
biases favoring that group.
                                       Gerrit favoring            Github favoring
 Hypothesis
                                    # biases   GIP   GNP        #total  GIP    GNP
 Code acceptance: H1.2a                    4     3     1             4     2      2
 Review interval: H2.2a                    6     4     2             4     4      0
 Review participation: H3.2a               4     2     2             4     3      1


view interval (i.e., H2) is the metric, which shows the lowest number of gender
biased cases. Even so, 11 out of the 14 cases show biases in terms of review
intervals. However, the directions of biases vary based on both the metric
and project. In general, among the the Gerrit projects men have favorable
measures among majority of the cases. Interestingly, women on Github have
favorable measures in terms of both code acceptance and review interval. How-
ever, we find an opposite picture for Github women in terms of code review
participation.
    Table 10 summarizes the biases due to gender neutrality of profiles. These
types of biases are also present among most of the cases. Although, persons
with GIPs are more likely to have favorable measures, GNP favoring projects
are also common.



6 Discussion

Comparison with Terrell et al. [84]:
    We investigated two key results from Terrell et al.’s study regarding patch
acceptance and appearance as women. First, supporting their findings, we
found significantly higher odds of PR acceptance for women on GitHub across
all four groups. However, the same finding applies to only two out of the ten
Gerrit-based projects, while seven projects suggest the contrary.
    Second, we found three Gerrit-based projects (i.e., Chromium OS, Couch-
base, and Go), where women with GNPs have significantly higher odds of get-
ting code accepted than women with GIPs. This finding is similar to Terrell
et al.’s. However, contrasting theirs, our findings suggest that GNPs signifi-
cantly lower the odds of acceptance for women’s code on GitHub as well as
two Gerrit-based projects (i.e., Android, and oVirt). However, we would like
to restate that these differences may be due to a different heuristic adopted
by this study than Terrell et al.’s to identify GNPs.
34                                                                  Sultana et al.


Comparison with Bosu and Sultana [15]: Bosu et al. [15] and our study
have nine common projects and our study partially replicates their study,
some of our results differ from their findings. First, they found less than 10%
women across all the projects. However, we noticed four projects, including
three common to both studies, exceeding that threshold.
    Their results found significantly lower acceptance rates for women in An-
droid, Chromium OS, and LibreOffice and the opposite in oVirt, Qt, and
Typo3. While we obtained similar results for Chromium OS, and LibreOffice,
where women had lower odds of acceptance, we notice the opposite in Android.
Similarly, although our results for Qt are similar to Bosu and Sultana [15], the
opposite is seen for oVirt. Our results of Typo3 are inconclusive.
    For our second hypothesis (H2.1), Bosu and Sultana [15] found biases fa-
voring men in Android and Couchbase whereas women are favored in Qt and
Typo3. On the contrary, we found two projects (i.e., Couchbase and Typo3)
flipping with women being favored in Android and Typo3 but men being fa-
vored in Couchbase and Qt. However, these differences may be due to two
study factors. First, we have added four additional years of data. Second,
unlike Bosu and Sultana, we have used regression models to account for var-
ious confounding variables. Regardless, we comply with Bosu and Sultana’s
hypotheses [15] that gender biases are not universal and do not work in the
same direction across all projects. The prevalence of gender bias may depend
on various contextual factors, such as the culture of a community, sponsor,
governance, and project size.
Women are more likely to use gender neutral profiles: Table 4 shows
that majority of women (52%) prefer GNPs. On Gerrit-based projects more
than three-quarters of women use GNPs. While the ratio of women using GNPs
is lower on GitHub than women on Gerrit, almost half of the women on GitHub
use GNPs. In comparison, almost two third men use GIPs on GitHub. Prior
studies have found women using GNPs to avoid unwanted attention [31, 58]
as well as avoid biases [84]. While using GNP is a personal choice for a per-
son, disproportional higher ratios of GNPs among women hinder promoting
diversity and inclusion initiatives, as prior studies have found a lack of men-
tors and women role models as a barrier to encouraging more women joining
computing [15, 53, 94].
Do gender-neutral profiles help avoid biases? Terrell et al. hypothe-
sized that GNPs may help women avoid unwanted attention as well as bi-
ases on GitHub. While we found evidence supporting this hypothesis in three
Gerrit-based projects (i.e., Chromium OS, Couchbase, and Go), we also found
contradictory evidence in two projects and among all four GitHub groups.
Women with GNPs had between 1-5% lower PR acceptance rates than women
for GIPs from the same GitHub group. On the contrary, men with GNPs had
significantly higher odds of acceptance than men with GIPs in two GitHub
groups (i.e., M, and L). Therefore, GNP may not be a consequential factor,
especially on GitHub. However, GNPs may be helpful for women in some
projects. For example, women with GNPs from the Go project had +16.1%
How Do Gender Biases Affect Code Review Participation and Outcomes?          35


higher acceptance rates than women with GIPs from the same project. On
the contrary, the difference in acceptance rate between Go project’s men with
and without GNPs is -5.55%. Therefore, while GNPs are positively associated
with women’s acceptance of Go, the opposite association is found for men. Re-
gardless, GNPs do not solve underlying biases and help promote diversity and
inclusion. Therefore, if a project manager finds similar differences in another
project, they should investigate possible causes and their remedies.
Gender bias exists in different directions: From the results of three
research questions, we see that gender bias exists in FOSS communities but
the direction of bias varies. In terms of code acceptance, we found seven Gerrit
projects significantly favoring men but Android, Qt, and four GitHub groups
favored women. In terms of CR intervals, men are favored among three Gerrit
projects, and women are favored in four Gerrit projects as well as the four
GitHub groups. Finally, in terms of CR participation men had even large
advantages with eight Gerrit projects as well as three GitHub groups in their
favor. Therefore, gender biases may manifest not only in different directions
in another project but also differently across other CR aspects in the same
project. One size fits all approach may not be the best strategy to mitigate
gender biases during CRs.
Women participate less in code review: Women encounter the most bi-
ases during CR participation with eight Gerrit projects and three GitHub
groups being against their favor. While a person may self-assign to participate
in a CR, most of the CR assignments are based on invitations. Therefore,
women are less likely to be invited to participate than men. Since lower CR
participation from women is a trend common across almost all the projects,
this observation may be explained by affinity bias –the tendency of people
to collaborate with others who share similar interests, experiences, and back-
grounds. Moreover, a recent study also suggests affinity biases during pull
request acceptance on GitHub [60].
    We also noticed another interesting trend among several projects. Although
men with GNPs from Chromium OS, Go, oVirt, GitHub (L), and GitHub (XL)
are less likely to participate in CRs than men with GIPs, we see the opposite
trend for women with GNPs having higher participation. This observation fur-
ther supports our hypotheses regarding affinity biases. Since CRs have other
benefits such as knowledge sharing and building relationships [13], lower CR
participation puts women in disadvantageous positions to men counterparts.
Therefore, to promote diversity and inclusion, FOSS projects should take ini-
tiatives to ensure equitable participation of women in the CR process.
Ratio of women increasing among FOSS projects: Since nine out of the
ten projects were also included in Bosu and Sultana’s study [15], we compare
ratios of women reported for each of these projects in their study against those
found in this study (Figure 4). Eight out of the nine projects indicate higher
ratios of women in April 2022 than in September 2017, where Go is the only
exception. Android and Chromium OS indicate the highest increment.
36                                                                                                                                 Sultana et al.


                                                                   Year    September 2017            April 2022


                 15%
Ratio of women




                 10%


                 5%


                 0%
                             id                  OS          as
                                                               e          Go                e        ir t         Qt           3                d
                         dro                              hb                            ffic    oV                     Typ
                                                                                                                           o              lou
                       An                  ium          uc                        reO                                                  amc
                                      ho
                                         rm           Co                       Lib                                                  Wh
                                  C



Fig. 4 Ratio of women in 2022 with comparison to 2017

Recommendations for project managers: Project managers can play an
important role in fostering diversity and inclusion. Many organizations use
platforms and dashboards to improve software development practices including
code reviews [3, 9, 38, 42]. These platforms can provide them with insights into
code review activities and uncover potential biases. For example, if a woman
is among the top contributors based on code commits but ranks way lower
in terms of code review participation, or if a woman is considered an expert
for a project area but is not added as a reviewer for relevant changes, those
may hint potential biases against them. Project managers should look into
such cases and delve further to identify possible causes. If biases are found,
a manager should take steps such as educating developers, arranging team-
building activities, or creating policies to mitigate biases.
Directions for researchers: Diversity and impact of gender bias in FOSS
projects are well researched. Researchers also suggested numerous strategies
to mitigate such biases. Though gender bias exists among many projects, the
direction and amplitude of bias vary based on project size, community, and
culture. Similar strategies may not work across all projects, characteristics of
biases and their underlying causes differ. While prior research has proposed
various bias mitigation strategies (detailed in Section 7.3), how various con-
textual factors influence each strategy’s relevance as well as effectiveness, lacks
empirical validation.
    Women are subject to not only biased feedback during code reviews [43,65],
but also less likely to have equitable participation in the CR process. Results
of our study suggest CR participation as one of the most gender inequitable
aspects among most of the projects. Therefore, future work should focus on
the identification of barriers to promote equitable participation of women in
the CR process, and strategies to mitigate those barriers.


7 Related works

This section briefly presents existing research on gender bias in open-source
communities.
How Do Gender Biases Affect Code Review Participation and Outcomes?           37


7.1 Characteristics of gender bias in FOSS

Several prior studies have found the existence of gender bias in FOSS projects [15,
84]. Bosu and Sultana found that women consist only 6.70% of the non-casual
developers in 10 popular Gerrit projects. While Vascilescu et al. found 9%
women among approximately 873k GitHub contributors [90], in a later study
Terrell et al. found only 5.2% among 4 million GitHub users [84]. These stud-
ies suggest gender unbalance among FOSS communities. Wajcman shows a
connection between masculinity and technology and suggests that this con-
nection results from the historical and cultural construction of gender and
produces gender bias in tech [93]. Biases preferring one gender over another
can be explicit or implicit. Prior research shows that implicit gender biases are
dominant in professional software developers and impact hiring decisions and
contribution evaluation. Bosu and Sultana [15] found explicit biases against
women in the form of lower code acceptance rate, longer first feedback interval,
longer code review interval, and higher scrutiny during code review. They also
suggest the existence of implicit biases regarding participation in code review.
    Women also encounter bias during communicating with other contribu-
tors. Nafus [61] found that men monopolize authorship of code in the FOSS
community and withdraw necessary social ties that are necessary to build a
gender-inclusive environment. Canodo et al. [22] found that lack of gender-
equal communication impedes the participation of women. Women partici-
pants from the study of Lee and Carver [50] reported negative interactions
from males towards females. Also, women shared that men are aggressive and
hold stereotyping beliefs like women are less competent, devalue women’s in-
put, and try to humiliate women during interactions. Moreover, while inves-
tigating how FOSS contributors interact with opposite genders they found
both positive and negative responses. Negative responses express ideas related
to stereotypes about women, like women getting easily offended or creating
drama. One respondent shared that men are usually more used to being re-
jected, so there is less potential drama to be afraid of about interacting with
women contributors. On the contrary, female contributors shared that they
were required to prove themselves repeatedly or were made to feel less com-
fortable around men. As contemporary software development organizations
are dominated by males, occurrences of misogynistic and sexist remarks are
abundant in many communities [79].
    Along with community and organizations software products or tools can
be biased to one group of people neglecting others [18]. Gender inclusiveness
issues have also been found in software tools. Researchers have developed a tool
GenderMag [19] to identify gender bias in software tools. Mendez et al. [56]
found gender issues in from 7%-71% of the use cases for tools and infrastructure
used in OSS projects and showed that because of biased infrastructure women
newcomers are more disadvantaged than men. It is proven that tools are a
contributing factor in gender disparity in the open-source community [56, 57]
so it is high time we should focus on building gender bias-free tools for software
development.
38                                                                  Sultana et al.


7.2 Consequences of gender bias

Vandana et. al [77] investigated the situation of women working in OSS com-
munities and shared that due to the very low representation of women, they
feel isolated and burdened to represent all women who are being excluded.
Moreover, women often feel their contributions are not valued enough because
of their gender and they have to work harder to get recognition. Surprisingly,
one participant in her study shares that women are expected to write bet-
ter code than men because they have to be outstanding to reach a higher
level of projects whereas men with average skillsets can make it to those po-
sitions. Nasif and his colleagues [43] conducted a study to investigate the
effect of Prove-it-again where a member of a non-stereotypical group has to
meet stricter standards to prove his/her competence. They did not find that
women’s pull requests take longer time, in general, to get accepted but women
concentrate their contribution on fewer projects and fewer organizations than
men.
    According to Edna et al. [22], lack of gender-equal communication hinders
the participation of women in OSS communities. In this case, some men do
not interact or talk with their female colleagues equally. To express opinions,
women have to interrupt others, even if they are project managers. Paul et
al. [65] researched sentiment during code reviews for 6 popular OSS projects(
Android, Chromium OS, Couchbase, OmapZoom, Ovirt, Qt) and found that in
three of these projects, women receive negative reviews more often. Moreover,
men withhold positive encouragement while reviewing women’s codes. Women
tend to express their sentiments less than men and also are more neutral to
men counterparts than other women contributors. Additionally, the interaction
between men and women was found to be flirtatious whereas women-to-women
communication was found supportive [85] in MySpace comments. Nasif and
his colleagues [43] also investigated if women have a narrow band of socially
acceptable behavior while contributing to OSS projects. They shared that
women avoid using profane words more than men, they are more neutral while
showing sentiments or stereotypical masculine or feminine traits.


7.3 Strategies to mitigate bias

Researchers also mentioned multiple initiatives e.g. promoting women to lead-
ership roles, adopting codes of conduct (CoC) and maintaining transparent
organizational culture, promoting gender-inclusive language, de-biasing tools
and so on which can be taken to mitigate bias in the OSS platform, and increas-
ing participation of women. Canedo et al. [21] and Prana et al. [68] suggest
assigning women to senior roles to lead them to empowerment. Leadership in-
creases the visibility of their accomplishments, shows respect, and encourages
others to join the team [75]. Catolino et al. [23] shows in their study presence
of women in the community reduces community smells that are sub-optimal
patterns in the culture of software organization by mediating discussions and
How Do Gender Biases Affect Code Review Participation and Outcomes?           39


increasing communications among members. Avoiding segregation of tasks as
masculine and feminine, treating women developers as developers can disman-
tle stereotypical views and create a gender-inclusive environment [20, 21, 92].
Participants of Vandana’s study [75] suggested including women in different
conferences and activities instead of isolating them. Singh mentions letting
women lead where it is appropriate [75],
    CoC should enlist norms of unacceptable behavior in the community and
the consequences of violations of those codes. Singh et al. [76] investigated
websites for 355 projects in OSS where only 28 of them had Codes of Conduct
or similar guidelines. Prior studies show that introducing a code of conduct
can reduce tightrope effects and foster a culture of collaboration [20, 43, 68,
75, 76]. A study conducted by Robson [71] shows that it is not enough only
to introduce the code of conduct in the community, proper enforcement is
also required to make the environment inclusive for all [75, 88]. Moderators
should invigilate whether the rules are being followed and punishment must
be ensured if necessary [29]. If organizations that host the open source project
remain transparent about their work environment and culture, women can
decide beforehand to start a contribution. It can increase the level of affinity
between personal and professional values [69].
    Women newcomers in OSS face disproportionately more barriers than oth-
ers. Among different types of biases, gender bias in tools and infrastructures
used in open-source medium disadvantages women [56]. Researchers have de-
veloped a tool: GenderMag7 that can be used to de-bias tools. GenderMag uses
gendered personas and specialized Cognitive Walkthrough (CW) to evaluate
software and identify if there is any gender-inclusiveness issue for the tool for
a wide range of people from designers to software developers [56, 57, 63].
    Researchers have also mentioned a few humanitarian open-source projects
where women might be interested in [64]. Women developers can start con-
tributing to these projects and gain confidence and experience. Such types of
projects can be launched in a greater number to attract more women to OSS.
In a nutshell, researchers suggested inaugurating projects that are specifically
preferred by women.
    Qiu et al. [69] investigated the signals which contributors notice before
starting to work on a project. Few participants shared that openness of the
community or language used by the contributors plays an important role in
deciding to contribute to a project. One participant in their study found
that one project included “nice guys” in their documentation. OSS contribu-
tors also raised concern about gender-inclusive language sharing that project
should avoid words like “guys” or gendered pronouns, assuming contributors
are mostly men or hold one demographic background [21, 69], Nafus [61] also
indicated use of inadequate language in OSS. So, it is mandatory to use gender-
inclusive language in documentation or during communication with each other.


 7   https://gendermag.org/
40                                                                      Sultana et al.


8 Validity Threats

Internal validity: We examined our hypotheses for a total of 1010 FOSS
projects, where 1000 projects are using pull-request-based code reviews and
the remaining 10 are using Gerrit-based code reviews. Project selection is the
primary threat to the internal validity of our study. Since we partially replicate
the studies of Bosu and Sultana’s [15] study, we adopted their project list
for the Gerrit dataset. As one of those projects, OmapZoom was inactive,
we replaced that with another project Wikimedia that gets along with their
project selection criteria. We also updated their dataset with code reviews
until 30th April 2022 so that we can get the most recent status of gender bias.
    Furthermore, we are replicating the study of Terrell et. al [84]. As their
dataset is not publicly available, we selected 1000 projects from GHTorrent
exported in March 2021. Being an open-source platform GitHub hosts different
types of personal, and group projects that may or may not be based on pro-
gramming languages. Following Kalliamvakou et al.’s recommendation, [47],
we selected only those projects that use one of the popular programming lan-
guages, have at least 20 contributors and have 20 pull requests during the last
three months. We followed the criteria to avoid any discontinued or too small
projects that may not add any valuable information to our study. Moreover,
we selected GitHub projects by stratified sampling so that we can have in-
sights about projects of different sizes and conducted data analysis separately.
Despite our carefully designed sampling strategy, the characteristics of our
sample may differ from the entire GitHub ecosystem.
    GHTorrent 2019 dataset had a data hole for July to December 2019.
Though GHTorrent did not confirm if the issue has been fixed GHTorrent
MySQL export from March 2021, we found pull requests created during that
period in this dataset. However, we cannot confirm if all the pull requests
during that period are included in our analyses.
External validity: We can observe from the results that direction and degree
of bias differ for different projects. Results might be different if we replicate the
study in different settings or different projects. The scenario for communication
and collaboration among developers may not be the same for other projects in
FOSS communities. A project’s culture also depends on various factors such
as the nature and size of the projects, the number of contributors, and project
governance. While we have used data from a large number of projects in this
study, our sample may not adequately represent the entire FOSS spectrum.
Construct validity: One major construct threat to the validity of our study
is the gender resolution of the users. First, we did not attempt to identify
non-binary genders, since it is almost impossible to identify those developers
without their input. Second, for the persons with GNPs, we assign Gender-
Computer’s resolution. While GenderComputer has been used in several prior
SE studies including the two original ones, name-to-gender resolution tools
are prone to misclassifications [72]. Therefore, between 5-15% of the 85,772
persons with GNPs are miscategorized in our dataset. Finally, for the users
How Do Gender Biases Affect Code Review Participation and Outcomes?          41


with GIPs, we assigned genders based on their avatars. If we identified a con-
flict between the gender assigned by GenderComputer and our avatar-based
assignment, we manually checked the profile and searched on social media
to make a resolution. However, if GenderComputer assigns either ‘Unisex’ or
‘None’ and a user is using an avatar suggestive of a different gender, he/she
would be mislabeled. While we believe such cases would be negligible, such
misclassifications are another threat to our gender resolution strategy.
     We used python library lizard to calculate source code metrics, which have
been starred more than a thousand times on GitHub and have been forked
by more than 200 times. While we have not evaluated its accuracy, it may be
subject to some errors.
Conclusion validity: We have regression-based models for analysis to ac-
count for several confounding variables. We have used well-known and ma-
tured libraries such as stats, rms to train our models. To estimate effects,
we have used standard metrics such as the Odds ratio for logistic regression
models and co-efficient (Z ) for the linear models. Therefore, it is unlikely to
arise any threats to validity from the evaluation metrics, library selection, or
evaluation of the dependent variables.


9 Conclusion

Gender bias in FOSS communities is well-researched. But how this bias varies
for different aspects of OSS project development is not studied. To bridge this
gap, we studied the existence of bias in both explicit (pull request acceptance,
code review interval) and implicit bias ( code review participation). We found
that gender bias exists in different directions. The level of bias in the above-
mentioned aspects differs based on the size of the projects, the community, and
the culture of the projects. For GitHub projects, women have a higher pull
request acceptance rate and more code review participation (except extra large
projects) but longer code review interval time. The gender of the contributors
has a mixed impact on Gerrit projects. So, a single strategy to mitigate bias
in all projects might not be fruitful. We also investigated the effect of using
gender-neutral profiles on the three aspects and provided recommendations
based on our results.
    Prospective newcomers in FOSS communities, project managers, and re-
searchers may have some insights about the status of gender bias from our
study and take appropriate steps to avoid biased occurrences and make a
gender-inclusive environment.


Disclaimer

Our study primarily follows the proposed design published in the Registered
Report [80], but there are a few deviations from the original study. We have
listed those below:
42                                                                  Sultana et al.


– We have created both datasets based on more recent data. Originally we
  proposed to use the GHTorrent MySQL dump from June 2019. Instead,
  we have used the GHTorrent data dump from March 2021. Also, for the
  Gerrit dataset, we have updated Bosu et al.’s dataset to include all CRs
  completed till 30th April 2022. We have also identified bot accounts for
  exclusion.
– A criterion for selecting GitHub projects was changed from at least 10
  contributors to ‘at least 20 contributors’, since we found that a random
  selection with lower thresholds increases selection space by orders of mag-
  nitude and returns projects that have low development activities.
– To identify gender, we added a step, which is the identification of gender
  from the avatar.
– There is a change in the computation of the gender-neutral profile at-
  tribute. We proposed in the study design that we would consider a profile
  gender-neutral if the gender of the user is not identifiable from the avatar,
  display name, full name, or by human ratings. But, we considered profiles
  as gender neutral if the gender of the profile owner is not identifiable from
  the avatar. We discarded inferring gender-neutralness from a name or using
  a human rater since it requires familiarity with the origin of the name. For
  example, most people from the Indian subcontinent may easily infer the
  name ‘Sayma’ belongs to a woman. However, people from different origins
  may have difficulties. Moreover, even though a name-to-gender inference
  tool can reliably guess gender from a name, CR participants are less likely
  to use such tools during their collaborations. Therefore, to avoid such limi-
  tations, we considered only avatars as sources to identify gendered profiles,
  i.e., we marked a profile as GIP only if we can reliably identify its owner’s
  gender using the associated avatar.
– Moreover, we proposed that we would estimate the power of each indepen-
  dent variable using Wald Chi-Square statistics (Wald χ2 ). During study
  execution, we used ‘Odds Ratio” (OR) for the logistic regression models
  and regression coefficients for linear regression models, instead. There are
  benefits from both ends in using one over the other. Wald χ2 shows the
  influence of an independent variable over the trained model (i.e., how much
  explanatory power a model would lose if we remove this variable. On the
  other hand, OR shows how an independent variable’s change influences the
  outcome variable. Specifically, for dichotomous variables, OR indicates how
  the odds of an outcome change if the factor is present in contrast to its ab-
  sence. Since our variables of interest (i.e., gender and isGenderNeutral) are
  dichotomous, we think using OR has clear advantages in terms of interpret-
  ing the results. Similarly, for linear regression models, the coefficient shows
  how the dependent variable changes, if an independent changes by one
  unit. Again, due to the dichotomous nature of our factors such as gender,
  the regression coefficient shows how the dependent changes if we change
  gender from ‘0’ - ‘man’ to ‘1’ -‘woman’. Therefore, our modified choices
  have clear advantages over our prior selection in terms of interpretability.
How Do Gender Biases Affect Code Review Participation and Outcomes?                        43


Data availability

Our data mining and analysis scripts, and aggregated dataset are publicly
available at https://doi.org/10.5281/zenodo.760853. Due to privacy concerns, we
do not make the full dataset, which is more than 1TB publicly available. The
authors would be happy to share the dataset with researchers upon contact.


Funding and Conflicts of interests/Competing interests.

Work conducted by for this research is partially supported by the US National
Science Foundation under Grant No. 1850475. Any opinions, findings, and
conclusions or recommendations expressed in this material are those of the
author(s) and do not necessarily reflect the views of the National Science
Foundation.
    The authors have no competing interests to declare that are relevant to
the content of this article.


References

 1. Gerrit code review. https://www.gerritcodereview.com/
 2. Alba,       B.:     To      achieve     gender      equality,      we      must      first
    tackle      our      unconscious      biases.               http://theconversation.com/
    to-achieve-gender-equality-we-must-first-tackle-our-unconscious-biases-92848 (2018)
 3. Augustine, V., Hudepohl, J., Marcinczak, P., Snipes, W.: Deploying software team an-
    alytics in a multinational organization. IEEE Software 35(1), 72–76 (2017)
 4. Bacchelli, A., Bird, C.: Expectations, outcomes, and challenges of modern code review.
    In: 2013 35th International Conference on Software Engineering (ICSE), pp. 712–721.
    IEEE (2013)
 5. Barnett, M., Bird, C., Brunet, J., Lahiri, S.K.: Helping developers help themselves:
    Automatic decomposition of code review changesets. In: 2015 IEEE/ACM 37th IEEE
    International Conference on Software Engineering, vol. 1, pp. 134–144. IEEE (2015)
 6. Beard, C.: Diversity and inclusion at mozilla.          https://blog.mozilla.org/careers/
    diversity-and-inclusion-at-mozilla/ (2018)
 7. Beneschott, B.: Is open source open to women? https://www.toptal.com/open-source/
    is-open-source-open-to-women (2014)
 8. Bertagnoli, L.: How tech can get more women into software engineering. https://builtin.
    com/software-engineering-perspectives/women-in-engineering (2021)
 9. Bird, C., Carnahan, T., Greiler, M.: Lessons learned from building and deploying a code
    review analytics platform. In: 2015 IEEE/ACM 12th Working Conference on Mining
    Software Repositories, pp. 191–201. IEEE (2015)
10. Boston University, S.o.P.H.: Correlation and regression with r.                    https:
    //sphweb.bumc.bu.edu/otlt/MPH-Modules/BS/R/R5˙Correlation-Regression/R5˙
    Correlation-Regression4.html (2016). Accessed: 2021-05-29
11. Bosu, A., Carver, J.C.: Impact of developer reputation on code review outcomes in oss
    projects: An empirical investigation. In: 2014 ACM / IEEE International Symposium on
    Empirical Software Engineering and Measurement, pp. 33:1–33:10. Torino, Italy (2014)
12. Bosu, A., Carver, J.C.: Impact of developer reputation on code review outcomes in
    oss projects: An empirical investigation. In: Proceedings of the 8th ACM/IEEE In-
    ternational Symposium on Empirical Software Engineering and Measurement, ESEM
    ’14. Association for Computing Machinery, New York, NY, USA (2014). DOI
    10.1145/2652524.2652544. URL https://doi.org/10.1145/2652524.2652544
44                                                                               Sultana et al.


13. Bosu, A., Carver, J.C., Bird, C., Orbeck, J., Chockley, C.: Process aspects and social
    dynamics of contemporary code review: Insights from open source development and
    industrial practice at microsoft. IEEE Transactions on Software Engineering 43(1),
    56–75 (2016)
14. Bosu, A., Carver, J.C., Hafiz, M., Hilley, P., Janni, D.: Identifying the characteristics of
    vulnerable code changes: An empirical study. In: 22nd ACM SIGSOFT International
    Symposium on the Foundations of Software Engineering, pp. 257–268. Hong Kong,
    China (2014)
15. Bosu, A., Sultana, K.Z.: Diversity and inclusion in open source software (oss) projects:
    Where do we stand? In: Proceedings of the 2019 ACM/IEEE International Symposium
    on Empirical Software Engineering and Measurement (ESEM) (2019)
16. Bourke, J.: Diversity and inclusion: The reality gap. https://www2.deloitte.com/us/
     en/insights/focus/human-capital-trends/2017/diversity-and-inclusion-at-the-workplace.
    html (2017). Accessed: 2022-06-29
17. Built-in: Diversity + inclusion.what is the meaning of diversity & inclusion? a 2021
    workplace guide. https://builtin.com/diversity-inclusion (2021). Accessed: 2021-05-29
18. Burnett, M., Counts, R., Lawrence, R., Hanson, H.: Gender hcl and microsoft: Highlights
    from a longitudinal study. In: 2017 IEEE Symposium on Visual Languages and Human-
    Centric Computing (VL/HCC), pp. 139–143 (2017). DOI 10.1109/VLHCC.2017.8103461
19. Burnett, M., Stumpf, S., Macbeth, J., Makri, S., Beckwith, L., Kwan, I., Peters, A.,
    Jernigan, W.: Gendermag: A method for evaluating software’s gender inclusiveness.
    Interacting with Computers 28(6), 760–787 (2016)
20. Calvo, D.: The (in)visible barriers of free software: Inequalities of online communities in
    spain. Studies in Communication Sciences 21 (2020). DOI 10.24434/j.scoms.2021.01.011
21. Canedo, E., Bonifacio, R., Okimoto, M., Serebrenik, A., Pinto, G., Monteiro, E.: Work
    practices and perceptions from women core developers in oss communities. In: Proceed-
    ings of the 14th ACM/IEEE International Symposium on Empirical Software Engineer-
    ing and Measurement (ESEM), pp. 1–11 (2020)
22. Canedo, E.D., Mendes, F., Cerqueira, A., Okimoto, M., Pinto, G., Bonifacio, R.: Break-
    ing one barrier at a time: How women developers cope in a men-dominated industry.
    In: Brazilian Symposium on Software Engineering, SBES ’21, p. 378–387. Association
    for Computing Machinery, New York, NY, USA (2021). DOI 10.1145/3474624.3474638.
    URL https://doi.org/10.1145/3474624.3474638
23. Catolino, G., Palomba, F., Tamburri, D., Serebrenik, A., Ferrucci, F.: Gender di-
    versity and women in software teams: how do they affect community smells? In:
    Proceedings - 2019 IEEE/ACM 41st International Conference on Software Engineer-
    ing, pp. 11–20. ACM/IEEE (2019). DOI 10.1109/ICSE-SEIS.2019.00010. URL https:
    //2019.icse-conferences.org/home. 41st ACM/IEEE International Conference on Soft-
    ware Engineering, (ICSE2019), ICSE2019 ; Conference date: 25-05-2019 Through 31-
    05-2019
24. Ciceri, F.: Diversity statement. https://www.debian.org/intro/diversity (2021)
25. David, P.A., Shapiro, J.S.: Community-based production of open-source software: What
    do we know about the developers who participate? Information Economics and
    Policy 20(4), 364–398 (2008). DOI https://doi.org/10.1016/j.infoecopol.2008.10.001.
    URL https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0167624508000553. Empirical
    Issues in Open Source Software
26. Durrleman, S., Simon, R.: Flexible regression models with cubic splines. Statistics in
    medicine 8(5), 551–561 (1989)
27. Eidinger, E., Enbar, R., Hassner, T.: Age and gender estimation of unfiltered faces.
    IEEE Transactions on information forensics and security 9(12), 2170–2179 (2014)
28. Fan, Y., Xia, X., Lo, D., Li, S.: Early prediction of merged code changes to prioritize
    reviewing tasks. Empirical Software Engineering 23(6), 3346–3393 (2018)
29. Forte, A., Antin, J., Bardzell, S., Honeywell, L., Riedl, J., Stierch, S.: Some of all human
    knowledge: Gender and participation in peer production. In: Proceedings of the ACM
    2012 Conference on Computer Supported Cooperative Work Companion, CSCW ’12,
    p. 33–36. Association for Computing Machinery, New York, NY, USA (2012). DOI
    10.1145/2141512.2141530. URL https://doi.org/10.1145/2141512.2141530
30. Foundation: Geek feminisom wiki.            http://geekfeminism.wikia.com/wiki/FLOSS#
    Discussion˙of˙issues (2008)
How Do Gender Biases Affect Code Review Participation and Outcomes?                          45


31. FRLUCKAJ, H., DABBISH, L., WIDDER, D.G., QIU, H.S., HERBSLEB, J.: Gender
    and participation in open source software development (2022)
32. Fulton, L.V., Mendez, F.A., Bastian, N.D., Musal, R.M.: Confusion between odds and
    probability, a pandemic? Journal of Statistics Education 20(3) (2012)
33. Ghosh, R., Glott, R., Krieger, B., Robles, G.: The free/libre and open source software
    survey and study—floss final report (2002)
34. Gousios, G.: The ghtorrent dataset and tool suite. In: Proceedings of the 10th Work-
    ing Conference on Mining Software Repositories, MSR ’13, pp. 233–236. IEEE Press,
    Piscataway, NJ, USA (2013). URL http://dl.acm.org/citation.cfm?id=2487085.2487132
35. Gousios, G., Pinzger, M., Deursen, A.v.: An exploratory study of the pull-based software
    development model. In: Proceedings of the 36th international conference on software
    engineering, pp. 345–355 (2014)
36. Gousios, G., Pinzger, M., Deursen, A.v.: An exploratory study of the pull-based software
    development model. In: Proceedings of the 36th International Conference on Software
    Engineering, ICSE’2014, p. 345–355. Association for Computing Machinery, New York,
    NY, USA (2014). DOI 10.1145/2568225.2568260. URL https://doi.org/10.1145/2568225.
    2568260
37. Goyal, K., Agarwal, K., Kumar, R.: Face detection and tracking: Using opencv. In:
    2017 International conference of Electronics, Communication and Aerospace Technology
    (ICECA), vol. 1, pp. 474–478. IEEE (2017)
38. Guerrouj, L., Baysal, O., Lo, D., Khomh, F.: Software analytics: challenges and oppor-
    tunities. In: Proceedings of the 38th International Conference on Software Engineering
    Companion, pp. 902–903 (2016)
39. Harrell, F.: Regression Modeling Strategies: With Applications to Linear Models, Lo-
    gistic and Ordinal Regression, and Survival Analysis. Springer Series in Statistics.
    Springer International Publishing (2015). URL https://books.google.com/books?id=
    94RgCgAAQBAJ
40. Harrell, F., Lee, K., Califf, R., Pryor, D., Rosati, R.: Regression modelling strategies
    for improved prognostic prediction. Statistics in medicine 3(2), 143—152 (1984). DOI
    10.1002/sim.4780030207. URL https://doi.org/10.1002/sim.4780030207
41. Harrell, F., Lee, K., Matchar, D., Reichert, T.: Harrell jr fe, lee kl, matchar db, reichert
    taregression models for prognostic prediction: advantages, problems, and suggested so-
    lutions. cancer treat rep 69: 1071-1077. Cancer treatment reports 69, 1071–77 (1985)
42. Hasan, M., Iqbal, A., Islam, M.R.U., Rahman, A.I., Bosu, A.: Using a balanced scorecard
    to identify opportunities to improve code review effectiveness: An industrial experience
    report. Empirical Software Engineering 26, 1–34 (2021)
43. Imtiaz, N., Middleton, J., Chakraborty, J., Robson, N., Bai, G., Murphy-Hill, E.: Inves-
    tigating the effects of gender bias on github (2019). DOI 10.1109/ICSE.2019.00079
44. Jacques, V.: Pygithub. https://pygithub.readthedocs.io/
45. Jeong, G., Kim, S., Zimmermann, T., Yi, K.: Improving code review by predicting
    reviewers and acceptance of patches. Research on software analysis for error-free com-
    puting center Tech-Memo (ROSAEC MEMO 2009-006) pp. 1–18 (2009)
46. Jiang, Y., Adams, B., German, D.M.: Will my patch make it? and how fast? case study
    on the linux kernel. In: 2013 10th Working Conference on Mining Software Repositories
    (MSR), pp. 101–110. IEEE (2013)
47. Kalliamvakou, E., Gousios, G., Blincoe, K., Singer, L., German, D.M., Damian, D.:
    An in-depth study of the promises and perils of mining github. Empirical Software
    Engineering 21(5), 2035–2071 (2016)
48. Kononenko, O., Baysal, O., Guerrouj, L., Cao, Y.: Investigating code review quality: Do
    people and participation matter? pp. 111–120 (2015). DOI 10.1109/ICSM.2015.7332457
49. Laura Sherbin, R.R.: Diversity doesn’t stick without inclusion (2017). URL https:
    //www.vernamyers.com/2017/02/04/diversity-doesnt-stick-without-inclusion/
50. Lee, A., Carver, J.C.: Floss participants’ perceptions about gender and inclusiveness:
    A survey. In: 2019 IEEE/ACM 41st International Conference on Software Engineering
    (ICSE), pp. 677–687 (2019). DOI 10.1109/ICSE.2019.00077
51. Lenarduzzi, V., Nikkola, V., Saarimäki, N., Taibi, D.: Does code quality affect pull
    request acceptance? an empirical study. Journal of Systems and Software 171, 110806
    (2021)
46                                                                             Sultana et al.


52. Lin, B., Serebrenik, A.: Recognizing gender of stack overflow users. In: Proceedings of
    the 13th International Conference on Mining Software Repositories, pp. 425–429 (2016)
53. Lockwood, P.: “someone like me can be successful”: Do college students need same-
    gender role models? Psychology of women quarterly 30(1), 36–46 (2006)
54. Mansfield, E.R., Helms, B.P.: Detecting multicollinearity. The American Statistician
    36(3a), 158–160 (1982)
55. McIntosh, S., Kamei, Y., Adams, B., Hassan, A.E.: An empirical study of the impact
    of modern code review practices on software quality. Empirical Software Engineering
    21 (2015). DOI 10.1007/s10664-015-9381-9
56. Mendez, C., Padala, H.S., Steine-Hanson, Z., Hilderbrand, C., Horvath, A., Hill, C.,
    Simpson, L., Patil, N., Sarma, A., Burnett, M.: Open source barriers to entry, revisited:
    A sociotechnical perspective. In: Proceedings of the 40th International Conference on
    Software Engineering, ICSE ’18, p. 1004–1015. Association for Computing Machinery,
    New York, NY, USA (2018). DOI 10.1145/3180155.3180241. URL https://doi.org/10.
     1145/3180155.3180241
57. Mendez, C., Sarma, A., Burnett, M.: Gender in open source software: what the tools
    tell. pp. 21–24 (2018). DOI 10.1145/3195570.3195572
58. Menking, A., Erickson, I., Pratt, W.: People who can take it: how women wikipedians
    negotiate and navigate safety. In: Proceedings of the 2019 CHI Conference on Human
    Factors in Computing Systems, pp. 1–14 (2019)
59. Mirsaeedi, E., Rigby, P.C.: Mitigating turnover with code review recommendation:
    balancing expertise, workload, and knowledge distribution. In: Proceedings of the
    ACM/IEEE 42nd International Conference on Software Engineering, pp. 1183–1195
    (2020)
60. Nadri, R., Rodrı́guez-Pérez, G., Nagappan, M.: On the relationship between the devel-
    oper’s perceptible race and ethnicity and the evaluation of contributions in oss. IEEE
    Transactions on Software Engineering 48(8), 2955–2968 (2021)
61. Nafus, D.: ‘patches don’t have gender’: What is not open in open source software. New
    Media & Society 14(4), 669–683 (2012). DOI 10.1177/1461444811422887
62. Nafus, D., Leach, J., Krieger, B.: Flosspols deliverable d 16 gender: Integrated report
    of findings (2006)
63. Padala, S.H., Mendez, C.J., Dias, L.F., Steinmacher, I., Steine Hanson, Z., Hilderbrand,
    C., Horvath, A., Hill, C., Simpson, L.D., Burnett, M., Gerosa, M., Sarma, A.: How
    gender-biased tools shape newcomer experiences in oss projects. IEEE Transactions on
    Software Engineering pp. 1–1 (2020). DOI 10.1109/TSE.2020.2984173
64. Parra, E., Haiduc, S., James, R.: Making a difference: An overview of humanitarian free
    open source systems. In: 2016 IEEE/ACM 38th International Conference on Software
    Engineering Companion (ICSE-C), pp. 731–733 (2016)
65. Paul, R., Bosu, A., Sultana, K.Z.: Expressions of sentiments during code reviews: Male
    vs. female. pp. 26–37 (2019). DOI 10.1109/SANER.2019.8667987
66. Paul, R., Turzo, A.K., Bosu, A.: Why security defects go unnoticed during code reviews?
    a case-control study of the chromium os project. in 2021 ieee/acm 43rd international
    conference on software engineering (icse). 1373–1385 (2021)
67. Pourhoseingholi, M.A., Baghestani, A.R., Vahedi, M.: How to control confounding ef-
    fects by statistical analysis. Gastroenterology and hepatology from bed to bench 5(2),
    79 (2012)
68. Prana, G.A.A., Ford, D., Rastogi, A., Lo, D., Purandare, R., Nagappan, N.: Including
    everyone, everywhere: Understanding opportunities and challenges of geographic gender-
    inclusion in oss. pp. 1–1 (2021). DOI 10.1109/TSE.2021.3092813
69. Qiu, Y., Stewart, K.J., Bartol, K.M.: Joining and socialization in open source women’s
    groups: An exploratory study of kde-women. In: P. Ågerfalk, C. Boldyreff, J.M.
    González-Barahona, G.R. Madey, J. Noll (eds.) Open Source Software: New Horizons,
    pp. 239–251. Springer Berlin Heidelberg, Berlin, Heidelberg (2010)
70. Rigby, P., German, D., Storey, M.A.: Open source software peer review practices. In:
    2008 ACM/IEEE 30th International Conference on Software Engineering, pp. 541–550
    (2008). DOI 10.1145/1368088.1368162
71. Robson, N.: Diversity and decorum in open source communities. In: Proceedings of
    the 2018 26th ACM Joint Meeting on European Software Engineering Conference and
How Do Gender Biases Affect Code Review Participation and Outcomes?                          47


    Symposium on the Foundations of Software Engineering, ESEC/FSE 2018, p. 986–987
    (2018)
72. Santamarı́a, L., Mihaljević, H.: Comparison and benchmark of name-to-gender inference
    services. PeerJ Computer Science 4, e156 (2018)
73. Santos, A., Vegas, S., Oivo, M., Juristo, N.: A procedure and guidelines for analyzing
    groups of software engineering replications. IEEE Transactions on Software Engineering
    PP, 1–1 (2019). DOI 10.1109/TSE.2019.2935720
74. Shull, F.J., Carver, J.C., Vegas, S., Juristo, N.: The role of replications in empirical
    software engineering. Empirical software engineering 13(2), 211–218 (2008)
75. Singh, V.: Women participation in open source software communities. In: Proceedings
    of the 13th European Conference on Software Architecture - Volume 2, ECSA ’19,
    p. 94–99. Association for Computing Machinery, New York, NY, USA (2019). DOI
    10.1145/3344948.3344968. URL https://doi.org/10.1145/3344948.3344968
76. Singh, V., Brandon, W.: Open Source Software Community Inclusion Initiatives to
    Support Women Participation, pp. 68–79 (2019). DOI 10.1007/978-3-030-20883-7 7
77. Singh V., B.B.: Motivated and capable but no space for error women’s experiences of
    contributing to open source software. In: The international Journal of information,
    diversity and inclusion, vol. 5 (2021)
78. Smith, T.J., McKenna, C.M.: A comparison of logistic regression pseudo r2 indices.
    Multiple Linear Regression Viewpoints 39(2), 17–26 (2013)
79. Squire, M., Gazda, R.: Floss as a source for profanity and insults: Collecting the data.
    In: 2015 48th Hawaii International Conference on System Sciences, pp. 5290–5298. IEEE
    (2015)
80. Sultana, S., Bosu, A.: Are code review processes influenced by the genders of the par-
    ticipants? (2021). DOI 10.48550/ARXIV.2108.07774. URL https://arxiv.org/abs/2108.
    07774
81. Sultana, S., Turzo, A.K., Bosu, A.: Replication package for ”Code Reviews in Open
    Source Projects : How Do Gender Biases Affect Participation and Outcomes?”. Zeonodo
    (2023). DOI 10.5281/zenodo.7608539. URL https://doi.org/10.5281/zenodo.7608539
82. Tao, Y., Han, D., Kim, S.: Writing acceptable patches: An empirical study of open source
    project patches. In: 2014 IEEE International Conference on Software Maintenance and
    Evolution, pp. 271–280. IEEE (2014)
83. Team, F.D.: Diversity and inclusion in fedora. https://docs.fedoraproject.org/en-US/
    diversity-inclusion/ (2019)
84. Terrell, J., Kofink, A., Middleton, J., Rainear, C., Murphy-Hill, E., Parnin, C., Stallings,
    J.: Gender differences and bias in open source: Pull request acceptance of women versus
    men. PeerJ Computer Science 3, e111 (2017)
85. Thelwall, M., Wilkinson, D., Uppal, S.: Data mining emotion in social network communi-
    cation: Gender differences in myspace. Journal of the American Society for Information
    Science and Technology 61(1), 190–199 (2010)
86. Thongtanunam, P., McIntosh, S., Hassan, A., Iida, H.: Review participation in modern
    code review. Empirical Software Engineering 22, 768–817 (2016)
87. Thongtanunam, P., Tantithamthavorn, C., Kula, R.G., Yoshida, N., Iida, H., Mat-
    sumoto, K.i.: Who should review my code? a file location-based code-reviewer recom-
    mendation approach for modern code review. In: 2015 IEEE 22nd International Confer-
    ence on Software Analysis, Evolution, and Reengineering (SANER), pp. 141–150. IEEE
    (2015)
88. Tourani, P., Adams, B., Serebrenik, A.: Code of conduct in open source projects. In: 2017
    IEEE 24th International Conference on Software Analysis, Evolution and Reengineering
    (SANER), pp. 24–33 (2017). DOI 10.1109/SANER.2017.7884606
89. Vasilescu, B., Capiluppi, A., Serebrenik, A.: Gender, representation and online partici-
    pation : a quantitative study. Interacting with Computers 26(5), 488–511 (2014)
90. Vasilescu, B., Posnett, D., Ray, B., van den Brand, M.G., Serebrenik, A., Devanbu, P.,
    Filkov, V.: Gender and tenure diversity in github teams. In: Proceedings of the 33rd
    annual ACM conference on human factors in computing systems, pp. 3789–3798 (2015)
91. Veall, M.R., Zimmermann, K.F.: Evaluating pseudo-r2’s for binary probit models. Qual-
    ity and Quantity 28(2), 151–164 (1994)
92. Vedres, B., Vasarhelyi, O.: Gendered behavior as a disadvantage in open source software
    development (2018)
48                                                                           Sultana et al.


93. Wajcman, J.: From women and technology to gendered technoscience. Information,
    Community and Society 10(3), 287–298 (2007)
94. Wang, L., Weinberger, K.: Reasons for lack of diversity in open source: The case katie
    bouman (2020)
95. Xia, X., Lo, D., Wang, X., Yang, X.: Who should review this change?: Putting text
    and file location analyses together for more accurate recommendations. In: 2015 IEEE
    International Conference on Software Maintenance and Evolution (ICSME), pp. 261–
    270. IEEE (2015)
96. Yin, P., Fan, X.: Estimating r 2 shrinkage in multiple regression: A comparison of
    different analytical methods. The Journal of Experimental Education 69(2), 203–224
    (2001)
97. Yin, T.: an extensible cyclomatic complexity analyzer. https://pypi.org/project/lizard/
98. Zafar, S., Malik, M.Z., Walia, G.S.: Towards standardizing and improving classifica-
    tion of bug-fix commits. In: 2019 ACM/IEEE International Symposium on Empirical
    Software Engineering and Measurement (ESEM), pp. 1–6. IEEE (2019)
