                                         Recovering Fine-Grained Code Change Rationale from Multiple Software
                                         Artifacts
                                         MEHEDI SUN, William & Mary, USA
                                         ANTU SAHA, William & Mary, USA
                                         NADEESHAN DE SILVA, William & Mary, USA
                                         ANTONIO MASTROPAOLO, William & Mary, USA
                                         OSCAR CHAPARRO, William & Mary, USA
                                         Understanding the reasons behind past code changes is critical for various software engineering tasks, including refactoring, code
                                         reviews, and debugging. Unfortunately, locating and reconstructing this code change rationale can be difficult for developers because
                                         such information is often fragmented, inconsistently documented, and scattered across heterogeneous artifacts such as commit
                                         messages, issue reports, and pull requests.
                                            In this paper, we address this challenge with two novel contributions. First, we conduct an empirical study that analyzes nine
                                         rationale components drawn from an established taxonomy and traces where each is documented across the artifacts (e.g., issue
                                         reports, pull requests, and code reviews) associated with 63 commits from five widely used open-source Java projects. Seven of the
arXiv:2604.10345v2 [cs.SE] 29 Jul 2026




                                         nine components appear in practice, and rationale is highly fragmented: commit messages and pull requests primarily capture Goal,
                                         while Need and Alternatives are more often found in issues and pull requests. Other components are scarce but found in artifacts
                                         other than commit messages. Importantly, no single artifact type consistently captures all components, underscoring the need for
                                         cross-document reasoning and synthesis.
                                            Second, we introduce Argus, a novel LLM-based approach that identifies sentences expressing Goal, Need, and Alternatives
                                         across a commit’s artifacts and synthesizes these sentences into concise rationale summaries to support code comprehension and
                                         maintenance tasks. We developed and evaluated Argus on the 63 commits and compared its performance against baseline variants.
                                         The best-performing version achieved 51.4% overall precision and 93.2% recall for rationale identification, outperforming an alternative
                                         approach, while generating rationale summaries rated as accurate and correct relative to reference summaries. Our experiments with
                                         different LLMs for both rationale identification and generation further show that although the rationale identification accuracy varies
                                         across models, Argus can synthesize rationale summaries consistently rated as accurate. A user study with 12 Java programmers,
                                         who engaged in understanding unfamiliar code changes, further showed that these summaries were found useful for code change
                                         understanding and could support tasks such as code review, documentation, and debugging.
                                            Overall, our results show that fine-grained rationale components are distributed across heterogeneous software artifacts and cannot
                                         be recovered from commit messages alone. By automatically identifying and synthesizing this fragmented rationale information,
                                         Argus provides developers with concise rationale summaries that support code comprehension, code review, debugging, and long-term
                                         software maintenance.


                                         Authors’ addresses: Mehedi Sun, William & Mary, Williamsburg, USA, msun12@wm.edu; Antu Saha, William & Mary, Williamsburg, USA, asaha02@
                                         wm.edu; Nadeeshan De Silva, William & Mary, Williamsburg, USA, kgdesilva@wm.edu; Antonio Mastropaolo, William & Mary, Williamsburg, USA,
                                         amastropaolo@wm.edu; Oscar Chaparro, William & Mary, Williamsburg, USA, oscarch@wm.edu.



                                         Permission to make digital or hard copies of all or part of this work for personal or classroom use is granted without fee provided that copies are not
                                         made or distributed for profit or commercial advantage and that copies bear this notice and the full citation on the first page. Copyrights for components
                                         of this work owned by others than the author(s) must be honored. Abstracting with credit is permitted. To copy otherwise, or republish, to post on
                                         servers or to redistribute to lists, requires prior specific permission and/or a fee. Request permissions from permissions@acm.org.
                                         © 2026 Copyright held by the owner/author(s). Publication rights licensed to ACM.
                                         Manuscript submitted to ACM


                                         Manuscript submitted to ACM                                                                                                                             1
2                              Mehedi Sun, Antu Saha, Nadeeshan De Silva, Antonio Mastropaolo, and Oscar Chaparro


Additional Key Words and Phrases: Code change rationale, rationale identification, rationale generation, rationale summarization,
large language models, mining software repositories

ACM Reference Format:
Mehedi Sun, Antu Saha, Nadeeshan De Silva, Antonio Mastropaolo, and Oscar Chaparro. 2026. Recovering Fine-Grained Code Change
Rationale from Multiple Software Artifacts. 1, 1 (July 2026), 53 pages. https://doi.org/10.1145/nnnnnnn.nnnnnnn

1    Introduction
Understanding the rationale behind past code changes is one of the most frequent and important activities that software
developers perform when developing and maintaining software systems [16, 26, 30, 41, 57, 61, 87, 91, 107]. This
code change rationale provides essential context about the reasoning and justification underlying a code change,
beyond describing what was modified in the code (i.e., the code changes themselves) [16, 70, 91, 107]. Such rationale
includes the motivations for the change, the goals it seeks to achieve, the alternatives considered, the implementation
decisions made, and the evidence supporting the correctness or effectiveness of the resulting solution [16]. Prior
studies underline that understanding code change rationale is a critical requirement for developers to perform various
software engineering tasks [16, 61, 100], including refactoring and code review, diagnosing and fixing bugs, documenting
design and functionality, and reusing code for implementing new features. Code change rationale allows developers to
interpret the structure and behavior of the codebase, understand trade-offs considered during development, and make
informed decisions when correcting defects, implementing enhancements, or designing new features [16, 26, 91, 107].
Without this context, developers risk introducing regressions, violating architectural constraints, or duplicating previous
efforts, especially when they are unfamiliar with the project’s history or were not involved in earlier development
phases [16, 26, 91, 99].
    Despite its importance, collecting and understanding rationale can be difficult for developers [16, 57, 61, 107]. Rather
than being formally documented, rationale is frequently confined to ephemeral media. Even when recorded digitally, it
is often documented informally, expressed inconsistently, and distributed across multiple software artifacts [91, 102].
Junior developers and newcomers, who might rely on senior colleagues for guidance, often lack easily accessible sources
of rationale and are forced to reconstruct it from heterogeneous and unstructured artifacts [21, 33, 66, 91, 102], including
issue reports, pull requests, commit messages, code reviews, code comments, chat conversations, and meeting logs.
These artifacts are created by different stakeholders, at different stages of the development process, and for different
purposes. They vary widely in style, content, and length and often use inconsistent terminology to express similar
ideas [29, 91, 108, 119]. Consequently, locating and reconstructing the rationale behind a code change often requires
developers to navigate, interpret, and connect information distributed across multiple artifacts, which can be tedious,
error-prone, and time-consuming [16, 91, 94, 102].
    Although prior research has explored methods for identifying rationale in software artifacts [18, 38, 39, 75, 86, 90, 95,
96, 101, 117], existing approaches fall short in several key dimensions. First, they focus on detecting rationale content
within a single artifact type [18, 38, 86, 101, 117], such as commit messages or issue reports, limiting their applicability
in real-world projects where documentation is typically fragmented [47]. Second, they lack mechanisms to connect and
integrate rationale fragments across documents, making it difficult for developers to obtain a coherent understanding
of the reasons behind a change [47, 92]. Third, they are unable to identify fine-grained rationale components (e.g., a
change’s goal, underlying need, or alternative solutions considered) that developers often require and look for when
making sense of software changes [16]. Finally, they do not support cross-artifact generation of concise rationale
summaries that developers can easily consume to facilitate software comprehension and maintenance tasks.
Manuscript submitted to ACM
Recovering Fine-Grained Code Change Rationale from Multiple Software Artifacts                                             3


  To address these challenges, this paper makes two overall contributions. First, we conduct a comprehensive
empirical study of how code change rationale components are expressed across multiple software artifacts (issue reports,
pull requests, commit messages, etc.). We manually analyze the artifacts associated with 63 real-world commits from
five widely used Java open-source systems. These commits span a wide range of change types and sizes, contributed by
different developers, and are linked to diverse artifacts that capture various development workflows used to implement
and validate the changes. Using multi-coder qualitative analysis guided by an established rationale taxonomy [16],
we identify seven fine-grained rationale components. These include the Goal of the change, the Need motivating it,
Alternative solutions considered, and the Selected Alternative. Our analysis reveals that rationale information is highly
fragmented and inconsistently distributed across artifacts. Commit messages and pull requests primarily document a
change’s Goal, while Need is mostly captured in issues and pull requests. Other components (e.g., Alternatives and Selected
Alternative) appear less frequently and are scattered across different artifacts. Pull requests and issues stand out as the
most diverse sources of rationale information. Importantly, most rationale components beyond Goal are documented
outside commit messages. In essence, no single artifact type consistently captures all rationale components, highlighting
the need for techniques that can identify, retrieve, and synthesize rationale information across multiple artifacts.
  Second, building on these insights, we design and evaluate Argus, a novel LLM-based approach for fine-grained,
multi-document rationale extraction and generation. Argus identifies the software artifacts associated with a code
change (e.g., issue reports, pull requests, and code reviews) and performs two main tasks: (1) it identifies sentences that
express the three most common rationale components from the study (Goal, Need, and Alternatives), and (2) it generates
concise, coherent summaries of these components that integrate rationale information from the artifacts. We experiment
with multiple prompting strategies for Argus to guide the model in both rationale extraction and generation using the
63 studied commits. Employing a data-driven methodology using a development set of 13 commits, we identify the
most effective prompting strategy (namely, task decomposition and few-shot exemplars with explanations) and evaluate
its effectiveness on a held-out test set of 50 commits. Our analysis reveals that Argus outperforms prompting baselines,
achieving 51.4% precision and 93.2% recall for rationale identification, while generating rationale summaries rated as
accurate and correct relative to reference summaries. We also conducted a cross-LLM analysis of rationale identification
and generation. The results show that model choice has an effect on rationale identification accuracy, whereas rationale
generation is much less sensitive to the choice of LLM when the same rationale sentences are provided as input.
  We further evaluated the perceived usefulness of Argus in a user study with 12 Java developers, who assessed the
generated rationale components for 18 commits. Participants reported that the synthesized rationale helped them under-
stand why changes were made across different types of commits. They also indicated that the rationale could be useful in
comprehending code changes and can support maintenance tasks such as code review, documentation, and debugging.
  In summary, our work makes the following contributions:
(1) An empirical study that found that rationale components for a code change, such as the Goal, Need, and Alternatives,
    are fragmented and inconsistently expressed in various software artifacts (issues, pull requests, code reviews,
    etc.). This highlights the need for cross-document rationale identification and synthesis to support developers in
    understanding the reasons behind code changes. To the best of our knowledge, we are the first to study how code
    change rationale components are documented in software artifacts.
(2) A novel multi-document LLM-based approach, Argus, that identifies fine-grained rationale component information
    across diverse artifact kinds and synthesizes summaries of each component.



                                                                                                  Manuscript submitted to ACM
4                               Mehedi Sun, Antu Saha, Nadeeshan De Silva, Antonio Mastropaolo, and Oscar Chaparro


(3) A data-driven tool development and evaluation methodology for rationale identification and generation to identify
      the most effective prompting strategies for Argus. Combining reasoning-based few-shot exemplars with task-
      decomposition prompting leads to accurate and correct rationale summaries ready to be consumed by developers.
(4) A cross-model sensitivity analysis examining how different LLMs affect the rationale identification and generation
      modules of Argus.
(5) A user study that assessed the usefulness of Argus’s generated rationale summaries, showing that developers find
      them useful for understanding code changes and supporting various tasks such as code review, debugging, and
      documentation.
(6) A novel dataset of fine-grained, multi-document code change rationale, with rationale content annotated in artifacts
      associated with 63 commits of five popular and active open source projects. This dataset is part of a publicly available
      replication package that provides source code and infrastructure to support verification and reproduction of work,
      as well as further research in this area [14].



2     Background and Motivating Example

2.1    Code Change Rationale Components

A code change is a set of modifications, additions, or removals made to one or more code files in a software system,
recorded as a commit in a version control system. The rationale of a code change captures the reasoning and justification
underlying that change, including its motivations, goals, alternatives, decisions, trade-offs, and supporting evidence.
A code change’s rationale can be decomposed into rationale components, each representing a distinct aspect of the
reasoning behind the change, such as the Need motivating it, the Goal it seeks to achieve, the Alternatives considered,
or the Validation supporting the chosen solution [16].
    Our work is based on the taxonomy of code-change rationale by Al Safwan et al. [16], developed through a rigorous
mixed-methods study, which included a literature review and surveys and interviews with practitioners. The taxonomy
defines 15 rationale components that capture different aspects of the information developers seek when understanding
software evolution.
    The components in the taxonomy are categorized into four broad themes: the code change’s objective, design, execution,
and evaluation. Objective rationale components include the code change’s Goal (what the developers aimed to achieve)
and Need (the reasons or motivations for the change). Design components include Constraints (limitations or restrictions
for implementing the change) and Alternatives (potential solutions discussed by developers but not implemented in
the final code change). Execution components include Time (timing-related reasons for implementing the change) and
Modifications (reasons related to code modifications). Evaluation components include Side Effects (reasons related to
mitigating a change’s side effects) and Maturity Stage (reasons related to how mature the change is). The components
overlap by design as some can apply in certain development contexts while others can apply in other contexts. We refer
the reader to Al Safwan et al.’s paper [16] for the full taxonomy.
    While the original taxonomy contains 15 rationale components, our study focuses on the subset of components that
require interpretive reasoning and are expressed by different stakeholders within software artifacts. As discussed in
Section 3 this results in seven rationale components that were observed and analyzed in our dataset.


Manuscript submitted to ACM
Recovering Fine-Grained Code Change Rationale from Multiple Software Artifacts                                                                            5

                                                 Fig. 1. A Motivating Example from the OkHttp Project [13]

                     Commit 4c86085                            ARGUS Generated Rationale                        PR #670: Drop ALPN support

       Commit Message: Drop ALPN support. ...               GOAL: Remove ALPN support from                Comment#1:
                                                            OkHttp’s Android Platform                     [INFO] Reactor Summary:
       File Name: okhttp/src/ ... /Platform.java                                                          [INFO] ...
                                                            implementation.
       - Method setAlpnProtocols = null;
       - Method getAlpnSelectedProtocol ...                  NEED: Android’s ALPN support
                                                                                                             Issue #647: segfault in /system/lib/...
       return new Android(...,setNpnProtocols,               (introduced in 4.4) suffers a
       - getNpnSelectedProtocol,...Protocol);                concurrency bug and its
       + getNpnSelectedProtocol);                            SSL_CTX_set_alpn_protos call                 Comment#1: That said, we can probably do
       - if (setAlpnProtocols != null) {                     is not thread-safe, leading to               something to work-around in OkHttp ...
       - setAlpnProtocols.invoke( ... );                     native crashes and segfaults
                                                             in libssl...
                                                                                                              Issue #666: Native crash in SSL ...
         Class Javadoc: Platform.java#Platform               ALTERNATIVES: Workarounds
                                                             considered included early                    Comment#10: Yes, but the startHandshake
       /**                                                   initialization of OkHttpClient               code calls SSL_CTX_set_alpn_
        * <p>ALPN ( ... ) is the successor to NPN. It        via                                          proto which does not look thread-safe at all.
        * technical advantages over NPN. ALPN...             URL.setURLStreamHandlerFactory
        * that release suffers a ... concurrency bug         to avoid mixing AOSP                         Comment#12: Duplicate of #647.
        * we don't use it. ALPN will be supported ...        HttpURLConnection and OkHttp,                Workaround the problem by adding this code
       */                                                    switching to...                              to run early in your program...



                                   Artifacts:      Commit Message    Class Javadocs   Pull Request (PR)         Issue




2.2    Problem and Motivating Example
Figure 1 illustrates a code change and the related rationale fragments scattered across multiple artifacts that explain
why the change was made. The example shows a commit1 from OkHttp2 , a Java HTTP client for the Java Virtual
Machine (JVM), Android, and the Graal Virtual Machine (GraalVM). The commit removed logic in Platform.java that
supported Application-Layer Protocol Negotiation (ALPN), a Transport Layer Security (TLS) extension enabling clients
to inform servers which application-layer protocols they support. While the commit message states the change’s Goal
(“Dropping ALPN support”), it does not explain why this change was necessary or what alternatives were considered.
   Artifacts linked to the commit, shown in the figure, provide richer context that helps explain the change. For instance,
the Class Javadoc of Platform.java noted that “Android 4.4 . . . suffers from a concurrency bug” while Issues #6663 and
#6474 include detailed comments about the problem: “the SSL_CTX_set_alpn_protos call is not thread safe” and causes a
“segfault in . . . libssl.so.” Issue #666 also records alternative solutions that developers considered, including small code
changes as workarounds until a permanent fix in Android became widely available.
   Importantly, no individual artifact contains enough information to reconstruct a complete view of the commit’s
rationale, including its Goal, Need, and Alternatives. A developer seeking a comprehensive understanding of the change
would therefore need to manually locate, examine, and synthesize information scattered across multiple artifacts,
particularly when the original developers are unavailable, as is often the case in open-source projects. This process can
be tedious and time-consuming, particularly for junior developers or newcomers unfamiliar with the project’s code and
history. Our goal in this paper is to automate this process by extracting and synthesizing rationale information from
multiple artifacts into coherent rationale summaries—such as those shown in Figure 1 (see Argus generated rationale)
and produced by our tool, Argus. These summaries provide developers with a concise view of a change’s rationale and
1 https://github.com/square/okhttp/commit/4c86085429edbeef0a383941936ee7b64cc3805e
2 https://square.github.io/okhttp/
3 https://github.com/square/okhttp/issues/666
4 https://github.com/square/okhttp/issues/647

                                                                                                                            Manuscript submitted to ACM
6                              Mehedi Sun, Antu Saha, Nadeeshan De Silva, Antonio Mastropaolo, and Oscar Chaparro


can support software maintenance and evolution tasks, such as investigating regressions, reviewing code changes, and
implementing new features.

3     Investigating Code Change Rationale Components in Software Artifacts

We investigate how software artifacts (e.g., issue reports, pull requests, and code reviews) related to a commit capture
different fine-grained rationale components (Goal, Need, etc.) Guided by the taxonomy of Al Safwan et al. [16] (see
Section 2), our study examines the extent to which these artifacts provide rationale information that can be extracted,
integrated, and presented to developers when understanding code changes.
     The study addresses the following research questions (RQs):
    RQ1 : How frequently are rationale components documented in software artifacts?
    RQ2 : Where are rationale components documented across software artifact types?
     RQ1 provides insight into the prevalence of different rationale components, i.e., which are more or less commonly
documented. RQ2 examines how rationale components are distributed across artifact types, identifying the primary
sources of rationale.

3.1     Commit Collection

Our study builds on the dataset curated by Tian et al. [108], which consists of 1,649 manually selected commits from
five large, widely used Java open-source software (OSS) projects: Spring Boot [9], a Java-based framework for building
production-grade applications; Apache Dubbo [1], an RPC and microservice framework; OkHttp [5], an HTTP client
for the JVM, Android, and GraalVM; JUnit4 [4], a unit testing framework; and Retrofit [6], an HTTP client built on
top of OkHttp. These commits were sampled from a larger population of 41.8K commits collected from these projects’
development up to 2021. Tian et al. carefully curated this dataset to capture diverse commit message characteristics,
including variations in how developers describe the change (what), the rationale (why), or both. We refer the reader to
Tian et al.’s paper [108] for a detailed description of their data collection process.
     To focus our analysis on commits where rationale is meaningful and attributable, we apply several filtering criteria
to the 1,649 commits:
    • Language Filtering: We retained only commits that modify at least one Java file, as our analysis focuses on
      code-level rationale. This resulted in excluding 510 commits without Java file changes.
    • Atomicity: We excluded 52 non-atomic commits that bundle multiple unrelated changes, as such commits hinder
      the attribution of rationale to a single change. Non-atomic commits were already identified by Tian et al. [108].
    • Modification Size Filtering: We filtered commits based on modification size (the number of modified files and
      changed lines of code) to remove extremely large changes as they often combine multiple concerns [52]. For example,
      commit [11] has almost 400 changed lines and includes several unrelated changes e.g., ‘Moved InitializationError
      to ParentRunner’, ‘Updated version in docs to 4.5’ or ‘included docs about junit-dep jar’. Using the interquartile
      range (IQR), we removed 166 commits that were outliers in the number of modified files and 226 commits that were
      outliers in the number of changed lines of code.
     Applying these criteria reduced the dataset to 830 candidate commits. From these, we randomly selected 63 commits,
stratified across projects (12–13 commits per project, shown in Table 1), to ensure coverage across different systems
while keeping the manual artifact annotation, based on multi-coder qualitative analysis, tractable (see Section 3.3).
     The sampled commits cover a wide range of change characteristics (Figure 2). For example, commits range from one
to five modified Java files and from one to 206 changed lines, while being associated with one to 25 artifacts spanning
Manuscript submitted to ACM
Recovering Fine-Grained Code Change Rationale from Multiple Software Artifacts                                                                                                                                                                           7

                                  (a) Modified Java files                                             (b) Lines changed                                   (c) Artifacts per commit                                       (d) Artifact types per commit
                        5.0                                                              200                                                         25                                                            7
                        4.5




                                                                                                                                                                                     # Artifact types per commit
                                                                                                                                                                                                                   6




                                                            # Lines changed (LOC diff)
                                                                                                                                                     20




                                                                                                                            # Artifacts per commit
                        4.0
# Modified Java files




                                                                                         150
                                                                                                                                                                                                                   5
                        3.5
                                                                                                                                                     15
                        3.0                                                              100                                                                                                                       4
                        2.5                                                                                                                          10
                                                                                                                                                                                                                   3
                        2.0                                                               50
                                                                                                                                                      5                                                            2
                        1.5
                        1.0                                                                0                                                                                                                       1
                                                                                                                                                      0

                                                                                                    Distribution      IQR   Median                        Mean        Min--Max

                                                                                               Fig. 2. Distribution of sampled commit characteristics



up to seven artifact types (see Section 3.2 for the process of identifying associated artifacts). This diversity provides a
rich set of scenarios for analyzing how rationale is expressed across artifacts. While the filtering reduces the size of the
dataset, it allows us to focus on commits where rationale is more likely to be present, attributable, and interpretable,
which is essential for our qualitative analysis.
                        In our online replication package [14], we provide the full list of sampled commits along with the applied filtering
criteria and stratification details for transparency and reproducibility.

3.2                           Software Artifact Collection
To study how the rationale information is distributed across different artifacts, we first collected artifacts associated
with each sampled commit. This subsection describes which artifact types we considered, why we selected them, and
how we retrieved them.

3.2.1                          Types of Software Artifacts and Motivation
        Understanding the rationale behind code changes requires examining information that is distributed across multiple
software artifacts associated with those changes. Prior research on rationale sources has shown that developers
document rationale information in a wide range of artifacts, including commit messages [37], issue reports [91, 99, 117],
emails [39], and code comments [86, 90]. Informal communication channels such as mailing lists [24, 101], discussions on
forums and Q&A sites [118] and chat discussions [18] have also been shown to contain rationale, including arguments
and design decisions, although such information is often unstructured and difficult to systematically extract and link to
specific code changes.
                        Despite this diversity of sources, most existing work focuses on individual artifact types in isolation, leaving limited
understanding of how rationale is distributed, complemented, and reconstructed across artifacts. To address this gap,
we adopt a multi-artifact perspective and systematically collect artifacts that capture different aspects of rationale
information, i.e., rationale components such as a change’s Goal, Need, and Alternatives.
                        We collected six types of artifacts linked to the 63 sampled commits: Issues, Pull Requests, Code Review, Javadoc
Comments, Inline Code Comments, and Commit Messages. We focus on these artifacts because they are consistently
available and publicly accessible across all five projects, as they are managed within GitHub, and they can be reliably
linked to specific commits through explicit references or repository structure. Other potential sources of rationale, such
as mailing lists, chat logs (e.g., Slack or IRC), and external discussions (online meeting transcripts), were not included in
this study due to their inconsistent availability across the selected projects. For example, while mailing list archives are
available for some projects (e.g., Apache Dubbo [2]), similar resources were not found for others (e.g., Spring Boot). We
                                                                                                                                                                                                                       Manuscript submitted to ACM
8                              Mehedi Sun, Antu Saha, Nadeeshan De Silva, Antonio Mastropaolo, and Oscar Chaparro


also did not identify publicly accessible chat channels for any of the studied projects. Although GitHub Discussions [10]
are available, they are not consistently used across projects, and it is often difficult to reliably link discussion threads
to specific commits or issues. As a result, incorporating these artifacts would require substantial manual effort and
would hinder the consistency and reproducibility of the dataset. Focusing on the six types of artifacts mentioned above
therefore allows us to construct a dataset that is systematically linked to commits and suitable for reliable analysis.
    We distinguish between class-level Javadocs, method-level Javadocs, and inline code comments (all these representing
code documentation) because they convey rationale at different levels of granularity and serve distinct documentation
purposes. Class-level Javadocs typically describe high-level design intent, architectural roles, and overall responsibilities
of a class. Method-level Javadocs provide more localized explanations, such as the behavior of individual methods,
parameter semantics, and implementation constraints. Inline code comments are embedded directly within the code
and can capture fine-grained, implementation-specific rationale. Separating these three forms of code documentation
enables us to analyze how rationale is expressed across different abstraction levels, from high-level design decisions to
low-level implementation details.

3.2.2   Defining Individual Artifacts
 We defined each software artifact as a self-contained unit of textual content for analysis. An Issue Report consists
of the issue title, description body, and all comments within the issue thread. A Pull Request (PR) consists of the PR
title, description body, and all comments within the PR discussion thread. For source code comments, a Class Javadoc
comprises all documentation comments immediately preceding the declarations of modified classes in a given Java file
(as reported in the commit), while a Method Javadoc comprises all documentation comments immediately preceding
the declarations of modified methods in that file. An (Inline) Code Comment artifact consists of all inline comments
contained within modified classes and modified methods, excluding comments located in unchanged methods of the
same file. For Class Javadocs, Method Javadocs, and (Inline) Code Comments, we focus on comments associated with
modified code elements, as they are more likely to capture the rationale for the changes introduced in the commit than
comments attached to unchanged code. A Code Review artifact consists of all review comments attached to changed
lines in the commit diff of a single PR, potentially spanning multiple code files. Finally, a Commit Message consists of
the commit subject line and the message body.

3.2.3   Process of Collecting the Artifacts
 All five projects in the dataset are hosted on GitHub, which provides unified access to issues, pull requests, and
code reviews. To establish accurate commit–artifact links, we combined heuristics, regular expressions, GitHub’s API
requests, and manual validation. Specifically, we (i) searched commit messages for explicit references to issue or pull
request identifiers using common patterns (e.g., “#”, “pull/”) and issue or pull request (PR) URLs, (ii) queried the GitHub
API to identify mentions of commit hashes in issue and pull request discussions, and (iii) performed cross-artifact
searches (e.g., identifying issues or pull requests referenced in commits, comments, titles, or discussion threads) to
recover additional links, accounting for cases where the referenced issue/PR is not explicitly mentioned in the commit
message but appears elsewhere in related artifacts.
    After identifying the related issues and pull requests, we used the GitHub API to systematically retrieve their detailed
metadata, including descriptions and discussion threads. Javadocs and inline comments were extracted from modified
Java files using the comment-parser library [3] with pattern-based heuristics, while code review comments were obtained
from pull request discussions via the GitHub API. A single commit may be associated with multiple artifacts of the
same type (e.g., multiple issues or pull requests), and artifacts may also reference each other.
Manuscript submitted to ACM
Recovering Fine-Grained Code Change Rationale from Multiple Software Artifacts                                                                        9


   In total, we identified and constructed 339 (5.4 artifacts per commit) artifacts across the 63 commits, providing a
diverse and multi-granular dataset for subsequent annotation and analysis.
3.3     Artifact Validation and Annotation Process
We conducted an iterative multi-coder qualitative analysis to (1) validate that the identified issue reports and pull
requests were truly associated with the commits, and (2) annotate the sentences in the artifacts according to the rationale
components they convey. Our process follows a consensus-based coding approach guided by the taxonomy of Al Safwan
et al. [16]. We first parsed the textual content of all collected artifacts into sentences using SpaCy’s English transformer
pipeline (en_core_web_trf)5 [8], resulting in a total of 3,088 sentences in the 339 artifacts associated with the 63
commits.
3.3.1    Artifact Relevance Validation
 Our goal was to analyze only artifacts that were genuinely associated with the target code change. Because artifacts
were collected automatically, some retrieved artifacts could be false positives: although linked to the target commit,
they primarily discussed a different code change and therefore did not provide rationale for the target commit.
   Two annotators independently assessed the relevance of all extracted Issues and Pull Requests. We did not perform
this validation for Code Comments, Method Javadocs, or Class Javadocs because these artifacts were extracted directly
from modified Java files in the target commit. Similarly, Code Review comments were obtained from the validated Pull
Requests. An Issue or Pull Request was considered relevant if it discussed the target code change or provided contextual
information necessary to understand it.
   To judge relevancy, the annotators first reviewed the target commit’s diff and commit message, then examined
the associated Issue or Pull Request, including its title, description, and discussion comments. An artifact was judged
as irrelevant if it was linked to the target commit but primarily focused on a different code change. For example, a
retrieved Pull Request might implement a separate change while merely referencing the target commit, or an Issue
might mention multiple commits, including the target one, while centering on another modification. Otherwise, it was
judged as relevant.
   From the 339 artifacts collected across 63 commits, both annotators agreed that 44 artifacts were irrelevant, while
7 artifacts were flagged as irrelevant by only one of the annotators. All disagreements were subsequently resolved
through consensus during discussion meetings. In total, 291 of 339 (85.8%) artifacts were considered relevant after
reconciliation, and 48 artifacts were deemed irrelevant and excluded from further analysis. These excluded artifacts
contained 486 sentences, which were not considered for qualitative analysis. The remaining 2,602 sentences, drawn
from relevant artifacts, were retained for rationale annotation.
   For the automated rationale identification and generation experiments described in Section 5, we intentionally
included irrelevant content to evaluate how our approach performs under realistic conditions where such artifacts may
be retrieved for analysis.
3.3.2    Rationale Annotation Process
 Our goal is to identify sentences that express code change rationale and assign them to fine-grained components from
Al Safwan et al.’s taxonomy [16] (e.g., Goal, Need, Alternatives, Validation etc.). We annotate at the sentence level,
where a sentence may express multiple rationale components. We conducted annotation over six iterative rounds, each
involving 10–13 commits. Two annotators independently labeled the sentences in each round as follows:
5We parsed sentences from each code comment individually, rather than from all comments concatenated within a Java file, to reduce sentence-segmentation
errors, such as incorrectly identifying a sentence that spans two adjacent comments.
                                                                                                                         Manuscript submitted to ACM
10                             Mehedi Sun, Antu Saha, Nadeeshan De Silva, Antonio Mastropaolo, and Oscar Chaparro


 (1) The annotators labeled each sentence with one or more rationale components. Sentences that did not express
       rationale were left unlabeled.
 (2) After each round, the annotators reviewed all conflicts and resolved them through discussion to reach consensus.
 (3) Following agreement, we summarized the identified rationale components for each commit into concise natural-
       language statements, which serve as ground truth for evaluating automated rationale generation.
 (4) This process was repeated across all six rounds until all commits were annotated.
     The annotation and ground-truth construction required substantial manual effort. Across the six annotation iterations,
we spent approximately 52.8 hours on independent coding, 10.1 hours on reconciliation, and 20 hours on ground-truth
rationale creation, for a total of about 82.9 human hours.
     Codebook Development. A shared codebook guided the annotation process. It was initially derived from the defini-
tions and examples provided in Al Safwan et al.’s taxonomy [16]. For example, following Al Safwan et al.’s definitions,
we defined ‘Goal’ as statements describing what the developer aims to achieve in a commit, including both high- and
low-level descriptions of the code change (e.g., "Add a new overload of Response.success() that accepts a custom
HTTP status code" — example for the Retrofit commit 329a9fd [15], detailed in Section 5.5.3); the ‘Need’ includes
statements conveying reasoning or motivation for why the change is required or why it was implemented in a particular
way (e.g., "Tests currently cannot verify behavior for successful responses other than 200 OK"); ‘Validation’ includes
statements that provide evidence or justification that the implemented changes achieve their intended objective, thus
supporting the correctness or effectiveness of the chosen solution (e.g., "The newly added test cases confirm that
responses with status code 204 are handled correctly"). Following each iteration of the annotation process, the codebook
was refined to incorporate additional rules for identifying rationale components, particularly in response to annotator
disagreements and sources of ambiguity. To minimize possible sources of confusion when interpreting the content
across multiple components, we introduced explicit rules; for instance, a sentence that merely describes the situation in
which a problem occurs is not labeled as ‘Need’ unless it also conveys the underlying motivation for the change. After
each round, the annotators collaboratively updated the codebook by clarifying definitions, adding illustrative examples,
and refining annotation guidelines to reduce subjectivity. This iterative refinement process improved consistency and
minimized ambiguity across annotation rounds. The final version of the codebook containing annotation rules for all
the components is included in our replication package [14].
     Contextual Grounding and Bias Mitigation. To ensure that sentences were accurately judged as reflecting rationale,
and to minimize interpretation biases stemming from limited familiarity with the project’s code, the annotators followed
a structured preparation and contextualization process. Before coding a commit’s artifacts, they first examined the
code change itself, along with relevant surrounding code in the modified files, to establish the technical context of the
modification. Next, they carefully reviewed all information contained in the associated artifacts (e.g., the full discussion
and metadata in the issue reports) to capture the broader context of the commit. Only after this contextual review
did the annotators proceed with sentence-level annotation of rationale. When necessary, they also consulted official
project documentation, including web API references and code-level usages of modified APIs, to better understand
their intended usage.
     This process ensured that annotations were not based on isolated sentences but grounded in the full technical and
organizational context. It allowed annotators to determine (1) whether the artifacts were directly associated with the
commit (rather than serving merely as cross-references, general discussions, or historical notes), and (2) whether a
given sentence expressed rationale and, if so, which components of the taxonomy it represented. Ambiguous cases
were resolved during reconciliation meetings.
Manuscript submitted to ACM
Recovering Fine-Grained Code Change Rationale from Multiple Software Artifacts                                                  11


   Rationale Component Selection. We initially conducted a pilot study on a stratified sample of 10 commits. During
this phase, we observed that certain execution-related components (e.g., Committer, Time, Location, Modifications,
and Explanation of Modifications) are directly obtainable from version-control metadata and therefore do not require
interpretive annotation. This observation is also consistent with findings by Al Safwan et al.’s study [16], whose
participants identified these components as the easiest to locate. Additionally, the Benefits component was excluded
due to its strong semantic overlap with Need, which made consistent distinction of the two components difficult
during annotation. From the 15 rationale components defined by Al Safwan et al. [16], we therefore excluded these six
components. Our analysis focuses on the remaining nine components that capture more interpretive, decision-oriented
aspects of developer rationale.
   Inter-Annotator Agreement. We measured inter-annotator agreement using Cohen’s 𝜅 [31]. For artifact relevance
identification, agreement remained consistently high across annotation rounds, reaching 𝜅 = 0.93 in the final iteration,
indicating almost perfect agreement. For rationale component labeling, agreement improved over successive rounds from
𝜅 = 0.58 to 𝜅 = 0.79, reflecting increased alignment between annotators. As shown in Figure 3, both tasks exhibit stable
and high agreement, with rationale labeling achieving substantial agreement in later rounds. Disagreements between
annotators mainly arose from (1) implicit rationale sentences i.e., rationale spreading across sentences; (2) component
overlap i.e., a single sentence expressing information about multiple rationale components; and (3) differences in
technical knowledge and subjective interpretation. Detailed component-wise agreement rates are available in our
replication package [14].


                                         1.0

                                         0.8

                                         0.6
                               Cohen's




                                         0.4

                                         0.2
                                                                    Rationale component annotaion
                                         0.0                        Relevance artifact identification
                                               1   2        3          4             5            6
                                                          Annotation round
Fig. 3. Inter-annotator agreement (Cohen’s 𝜅) across annotation rounds for rationale component labeling and relevance artifact
identification.


   The final outcome of this process is a sentence-level, multi-label dataset of rationale components grounded in
validated artifacts. This dataset serves as the foundation for our empirical analysis and the evaluation of our automated
rationale extraction approach.

3.4   Results and Analysis
We analyzed 63 sampled commits comprising 127 modified code files (2 files per commit on average). For these commits,
we initially collected 77 Pull Requests and 37 Issues. After filtering out artifacts not directly related to the corresponding
commits, 49 Pull Requests and 24 Issues were retained for analysis.
   Across all artifacts, we identified a total of 3,088 sentences. Following the artifact relevance validation process
described in Section 3.3.1, 48 artifacts (486 sentences) were deemed irrelevant and excluded. From the retained artifacts,
                                                                                                        Manuscript submitted to ACM
12                                  Mehedi Sun, Antu Saha, Nadeeshan De Silva, Antonio Mastropaolo, and Oscar Chaparro

                                  Table 1. Number of artifacts associated with the 63 sampled commits.
                                 Changed            Code              Class         Pull                       Method        Code
     Project      Commits                                                                         Issues                                   Total
                                 Code Files       Comments          Javadocs      Requests                    Javadocs      Reviews
   Dubbo               13           18 (1.4)         16 (1.3)        11 (1.4)       15 (1.5)      6 (1.2)      4 (1.0)        1 (1.0)      66 (5.1)
   JUnit4              13           18 (1.4)         7 (1.0)         10 (1.1)        9 (1.0)      3 (1.0)      2 (1.0)        3 (1.0)      47 (3.6)
   OkHttp              12           40 (3.3)         21 (1.8)        13 (1.9)       11 (1.0)      4 (1.3)      5 (1.3)        2 (1.0)      68 (5.7)
   Retrofit            13           23 (1.8)         17 (1.5)        8 (1.0)        11 (1.1)      4 (1.0)      5 (1.0)        7 (1.0)      65 (5.0)
 Spring-Boot           12           28 (2.3)         7 (1.2)         15 (1.4)        3 (1.0)      7 (1.2)      0 (0.0)        1 (1.0)      45 (3.8)
        Total          63          127 (2.0)         68 (1.4)        57 (1.3)       49 (1.1)     24 (1.1)      16 (1.1)      14 (1.0)     291 (4.6)
Each commit includes a commit message which is also considered an artifact. For individual artifact types, values in parentheses indicate the average
                                        among commits containing at least one artifact of that type


                     Table 2. Number of commits, artifacts, and sentences containing each rationale component
                                       Component                 Commit          Artifact        Sentence
                                       Goal                      61 (98.4%)     114 (84.4%)     146 (57.7%)
                                       Need                      34 (54.8%)     49 (36.3%)      86 (34.0%)
                                       Alternatives              9 (14.5%)       9 (6.7%)        20 (7.9%)
                                       Selected Alternative       4 (6.5%)       4 (3.0%)         6 (2.4%)
                                       Maturity Stage             1 (1.6%)       1 (0.7%)         1 (0.4%)
                                       Validation                 2 (3.2%)       2 (1.5%)         4 (1.6%)
                                       Side Effects               2 (3.2%)       2 (1.5%)         2 (0.8%)
                                       Total                         62             135             253



we collected multiple sources of rationale. Specifically, from the modified files, we extracted 57 Class Javadocs, 16
Method Javadocs, and 68 Inline Code Comments (Code Comments hereon). Among the 49 Pull Requests, 14 included Code
Reviews. Overall, this resulted in 291 artifacts (4.6 per commit on average) used in our analysis. The number of artifacts
per project is presented in Table 1.

3.4.1     RQ1 : How Frequently are Rationale Components Documented in Software Artifacts?
 We identified 7 rationale components in the analyzed artifacts, spanning 253 sentences and 62 of the 63 commits
(see Table 2). Among these, Goal (what the change achieves), Need (why the change was necessary), and Alternatives
(considered alternatives) were the most frequently documented. Specifically, 146 sentences (57.7%) expressed Goal, 86
(34.0%) expressed Need, and 20 (7.9%) expressed Alternatives. In contrast, the remaining components were rare: Selected
Alternative, Maturity Stage, Validation, and Side Effects appeared in only 1–6 sentences overall. We found no artifact
content expressing Constraints or Dependency.
     Table 2 reveals that, at the commit level, artifacts associated with 61 of the 63 commits document the change’s
Goal. The Need is documented for 34 commits, indicating that nearly half of the commits lack an explicit statement
of motivation in the analyzed artifacts. The remaining components (Alternatives, Selected Alternative, Maturity Stage,
Validation, and Side Effects) appear in artifacts associated with 1-9 commits only, which means that most of the commits
(54 or more) do not have any of these rationale components documented.
     To examine whether the aggregate trends reported above are consistent across projects, we also analyzed the number
of commits containing rationale components for each project (see Table 3). Overall, the same trend holds across all five
repositories. In every project, Goal is the most frequently documented component, and it is documented for nearly all
sampled commits. Need is the second most common component, as it is documented in artifacts for about half of the
Manuscript submitted to ACM
Recovering Fine-Grained Code Change Rationale from Multiple Software Artifacts                                            13

                       Table 3. Number of commits with artifacts containing each rationale component
                        Component              JUnit4   Dubbo   Retrofit   OkHttp     Spring-Boot
                        Goal                     11      13        13         12            12
                        Need                     7       7         7          6             7
                        Alternatives             1       0         0          4             4
                        Selected Alternative     1       0         0          2             1
                        Validation               1       1         0          0             0
                        Maturity Stage           0       0         0          0             1
                        Side Effects             0       0         0          1             1
                        Total                    12      13        13         12            12



commits in each project. All remaining components are rarely found across projects. For example, Alternatives and
Selected Alternative are documented for 1 to 4 commits only in JUnit4, OkHttp, and Spring-Boot, while Maturity Stage
and Side Effects are observed only once. Overall, these results suggest that our aggregated findings are not driven by
a single project; rather, the trend for developers to document some rationale components, especially Goal and Need,
much more often than others is consistent across systems.
   These findings partially align with Al Safwan et al. [16]. Their study, based on developers’ reported experiences (via
surveys/interviews), found that Side Effects and Alternatives are among the most difficult rationale components to find,
and that Alternatives, Selected Alternative, Constraints, and Maturity Stage are among the least frequently recorded. Our
artifact-based results confirm this pattern: Alternatives and Selected Alternative are rarely documented, Maturity Stage
is nearly absent, and Constraints do not appear at all. We also found Side Effects to be extremely uncommon. Taken
together, these results suggest that the components developers report as hard to find are indeed sparsely documented
in commit-related artifacts.
   The only sampled commit with no identifiable rationale component was JUnit4 commit cec4a6b [12]. This was a
change affecting a single code file and adding only TODO-style comments, with an empty commit message and no
associated discussion artifacts.
   We believe Goal, Need, and Alternatives are more frequently found because they are the components most naturally
expressed in developer communication, such as commit messages, pull request descriptions, and issue discussions. In
contrast, components such as Constraints, Dependency, Maturity Stage, and Side Effects are often left implicit unless
they become especially salient during implementation or review. The JUnit4 commit [12] with no identifiable rationale
illustrates this pattern: because the change was minimal and accompanied by no descriptive message or discussion,
even basic rationale components such as Goal were absent.


    RQ1 Findings: Seven of nine rationale components were found in the software artifacts associated with the
   studied 63 commits. The most frequently documented components are the change’s Goal, Need, and Alternatives,
   found in the artifacts of 61, 34, and 9 commits, respectively. The remaining components, Selected Alternative, Vali-
   dation, Side Effects, and Maturity Stage are less frequently documented (found for 1-4 commits). Two components,
   Constraints and Dependency, were not found in associated artifacts.


3.4.2   RQ2 : Where are Rationale Components Documented Across Software Artifact Types?
 We examined how rationale is distributed across artifact types by analyzing the frequency with which artifacts contain
rationale information overall and for individual rationale components, the presence of rationale in commit messages
                                                                                                  Manuscript submitted to ACM
14                                   Mehedi Sun, Antu Saha, Nadeeshan De Silva, Antonio Mastropaolo, and Oscar Chaparro

                                             Table 4. Rationale presence across artifact types and
                                         rationale density in rationale-containing individual artifacts
                                                                     Rationale                                   Avg. Proportion
                                               Number of                                   Avg. Sentences
                     Artifacts                                      Containing                                    of Sentences
                                              Artifacts (𝐴𝑇 )                                from 𝐴𝑅 +
                                                                   Artifacts (𝐴𝑅 )∗                                from 𝐴𝑅 +
                     Code Comments                   68                 3 (4.4%)                5.0 (5)            60.0% (60.0%)
                     Commit Messages                 63                61 (96.8%)               1.7 (1)            88.0% (100.0%)
                     Class Javadocs                  57                 3 (5.3%)                7.0 (5)            48.9% (40.0%)
                     Pull Requests                   49                42 (85.7%)               5.5 (4)            60.6% (53.6%)
                     Issues                          24                18 (75.0%)              36.1 (21)           19.5% (12.0%)
                     Method Javadocs                 16                6 (37.5%)                4.2 (3)            53.3% (37.5%)
                     Code Reviews                    14                2 (14.3%)               28.0 (2)            50.4% (50.0%)
                     Total                           291              135 (46.4%)               8.3 (2)             66.7% (75.0%)
                     Note: ‘*’ indicates the proportional value of all artifacts is placed in parentheses; ‘+’ indicates the median value
                    of all rationale-containing artifacts is placed in parentheses.


                    Table 5. Number of rationale sentences found for each artifact (with column-wise proportions)
 Artifacts                 Goal             Need           Alternatives     Sel. Altern.     Validation      Side Effects      Maturity         Total
 Class Javadocs              3 (2.0%)        1 (1.2%)                                                                                            4 (1.6%)
 Code Comments               2 (1.4%)        1 (1.2%)                                                                                            3 (1.2%)
 Code Reviews                                                  3 (15.0%)       3 (50.0%)                         1 (50.0%)                       6 (2.4%)
 Commit Messages          68 (46.6%)       14 (16.3%)                                                                                          80 (31.6%)
 Issues                     7 (4.8%)       39 (45.4%)         12 (60.0%)       1 (16.7%)                                        1 (100.0%)     60 (23.7%)
 Method Javadocs            5 (3.4%)         3 (3.5%)                                                                                            8 (3.2%)
 Pull Requests            61 (41.8%)       28 (32.6%)          5 (25.0%)       2 (33.3%)       4 (100.0%)        1 (50.0%)                     92 (36.4%)
 Total                146 (100.0%)      86 (100.0%)         20 (100.0%)      6 (100.0%)       4 (100.0%)       2 (100.0%)      1 (100.0%)    253 (100.0%)
 Note: For each artifact, the total number of rationale sentences may be smaller than the sum of the component counts because a single sentence can
                                                          express multiple rationale components.



compared to other artifacts, and the proportion of content within individual artifacts (e.g., a single Issue or Pull Request)
that expresses rationale.
     Rationale Presence Across Artifacts. Overall, rationale components were identified in 135 of the 291 analyzed artifacts
(46.4%) — see Table 4. Rationale information is distributed across all artifact types, although its prevalence varies.
Commit Messages, Pull Requests, and Issues are the most common sources of rationale, containing rationale in 61 of
63 (96.8%), 42 of 49 (85.7%), and 18 of 24 (75.0%) artifacts, respectively. In contrast, rationale was identified in 6 of 16
Method Javadocs (37.5%), 2 of 14 Code Reviews (14.3%), 3 of 57 Class Javadocs (5.3%), and 3 of 68 Code Comments (4.4%).
This distribution likely reflects the different purposes of these artifacts: discussion-oriented artifacts, such as Issues and
Pull Requests, are commonly used to capture the reasoning behind changes, whereas code-centric artifacts, such as
Javadocs, primarily document code behavior and implementation details. Below, we examine more closely the content
of Commit Messages, as it is a code change-centric artifact.
     Presence of Rationale Components in Artifacts. Table 5 shows that Commit Messages, Issues, and Pull Requests are
the richest sources of rationale, together accounting for 91.7% (232 of 253) of all rationale sentences. Information about
what a code change accomplishes (Goal) is primarily documented in Commit Messages (46.6% of Goal sentences) and Pull
Requests (41.8%). In contrast, information about the motivation behind code changes (Need) is most often recorded in
Issues and Pull Requests, with only 16.3% of Need sentences appearing in Commit Messages. The components Alternatives
and Selected Alternative occur exclusively in Issues, Pull Requests, and Code Reviews, which also capture some of the less
frequent components (Validation, Side Effects, and Maturity Stage).
Manuscript submitted to ACM
Recovering Fine-Grained Code Change Rationale from Multiple Software Artifacts                                                               15

Table 6. Number of commits where rationale components are found in commit messages only, in other artifacts only, or in both
commit messages and other artifacts
   Artifacts            Goal           Need        Alternatives      Sel. Alt.   Validation      Side Effects     Maturity         Total
      Only in
                     19 (30.2%)      2 (3.2%)         0 (0.0%)       0 (0.0%)      0 (0.0%)        0 (0.0%)        0 (0.0%)     15 (23.8%)
  commit msgs.
      Only in
                      1 (1.6%)      24 (38.1%)       9 (14.3%)       4 (6.3%)      2 (3.2%)        2 (3.2%)        1 (1.6%)       1 (1.6%)
  other artifacts
      In both
                     41 (65.1%)      8 (12.7%)        0 (0.0%)       0 (0.0%)      0 (0.0%)        0 (0.0%)        0 (0.0%)     46 (73.0%)
  artifact groups
  Total              61 (96.8%)     34 (54.0%)       9 (14.3%)       4 (6.3%)      2 (3.2%)        2 (3.2%)        1 (1.6%)     62 (98.4%)
  Note: Component columns count commits where that component appears only in the indicated source. Total counts commits where all identified
                                                  rationale appears only in that source




  Pull Requests capture 36.4% of all rationale sentences and cover nearly all (6 of 7) components, making them the most
diverse artifact for documenting rationale. Issues and Code Reviews follow as the second (5 of 7) and third (3 of 7) most
diverse sources, respectively. Overall, these results indicate that developers and other stakeholders primarily rely on
Pull Requests, Commit Messages, and Issues to document rationale across the 63 studied commits—a pattern consistently
observed in all five software projects.
  Interestingly, all artifacts except Code Reviews include Goal and Need. Code Reviews instead primarily contain
information about Alternatives, Selected Alternative, and Side Effects. This suggests that developers use Code Reviews
mainly to document implementation-level rationale, focusing on decision-making and potential consequences, rather
than high-level goals or motivations.
  Rationale Components in Commit Messages vs. Other Artifacts. We compare the presence of rationale components
in Commit Messages versus other sources, which may not be as readily accessible as commit messages for developers
when understanding code changes. Table 6 shows the number of commits where rationale components are found
exclusively in commit messages, exclusively in artifacts different from commit messages, or in commit messages and
other artifacts. As shown in the table, the Goal is captured in nearly all commit messages (a total of 60 of 63, i.e.,
for 19 + 41 commits, regardless if the Goal appears or not in other artifacts). Only three commits do not have any
Goal documented in the commit message. However, Need is far more often documented outside commit messages (24
commits) than inside them (10 commits). The remaining components are found exclusively in sources beyond commit
messages.
  In essence, commit messages primarily capture Goal, while the remaining six components are typically documented
elsewhere. This means that developers inspecting only commits often miss information about Need and other com-
ponents, and must search additional artifacts to retrieve it. This result motivates our work on automated cross-artifact
identification and generation of rationale components.
  Rationale Components in Individual Artifacts. Table 5 reports the density of rationale within individual artifacts
(e.g., single Issues or Pull Requests) and reveals additional differences across artifact types. Among artifacts that contain
rationale, Commit Messages exhibit the highest concentration, with approximately 88% of their sentences expressing one
or more rationale components on average. This is unsurprising given that Commit Messages are short (1.7 sentences on
average) and are expected to communicate what a change accomplishes, resulting primarily in Goal-related rationale. In
contrast, Issues contain rationale in only about 20% of their sentences on average, indicating that much of the discussion
focuses on topics other than the rationale of the associated code change. The remaining artifact types fall between
                                                                                                                 Manuscript submitted to ACM
16                              Mehedi Sun, Antu Saha, Nadeeshan De Silva, Antonio Mastropaolo, and Oscar Chaparro


these patterns, with roughly half of their sentences (49–61% on average) conveying rationale, suggesting that when
rationale is documented in these artifacts, it tends to constitute a substantial portion of their content.


      RQ2 Findings: Commit Messages and Pull Requests predominantly document the Goal of code changes, while
      Need is most frequently captured in Pull Requests and Issues. Pull Requests and Issues are the most diverse sources
      of rationale, documenting 5–7 rationale components. More generally, rationale is most commonly documented
      in Commit Messages, Pull Requests, and Issues, whereas Class Javadocs, Method Javadocs, Code Reviews, and Inline
      Code Comments contain rationale less frequently. Most rationale components beyond Goal are documented
      in artifacts other than commit messages, highlighting the need for automated identification and synthesis of
      rationale across multiple sources.



4     Argus: Automated Extraction and Generation of Code Change Rationale

Our qualitative study in Section 3 showed that rationale information is fragmented across software artifacts associated
with a commit, yet these are rich sources of fine-grained rationale components. While commit messages frequently
document a change’s Goal, other rationale components, such as Need and Alternatives, are often found in issues, pull
requests, code reviews, and code comments. These findings motivate automated support for identifying and synthesizing
rationale information across multiple sources.
     We introduce Argus, an LLM-powered approach for fine-grained Automatic Rationale extraction and Generation
from mUlti-document Sources. Given a commit, Argus reconstructs its rationale by retrieving related software artifacts,
identifying rationale content, and synthesizing concise rationale summaries.
     As illustrated in Figure 4, Argus consists of three modules executed in sequence:
(1) The Artifact Retriever first collects artifacts associated with a commit (e.g., commit messages, issues, pull requests,
      code reviews, and code comments) and parses their textual content into sentences;
(2) Then, the Rationale Component Extractor identifies sentences expressing the rationale components Goal, Need,
      and Alternatives in the collected artifacts; and
(3) Finally, the Rationale Component Generator synthesizes the extracted rationale information into concise
      summaries for each rationale component.
The following subsections describe each module in detail.

4.1     Artifact Retriever

The goal of this module is to gather the software artifacts most likely to contain rationale information for a target
commit. This module takes as input a project commit (i.e., the commit URL) and outputs a collection of associated
artifacts, including their textual content parsed into sentences. To construct this collection, this module retrieves the
commit message and diff, as well as linked issue reports, pull requests, and code reviews. As described in Section 3.2,
artifacts are identified through a combination of regular expressions, GitHub API queries, and heuristic-based text
matching, which detect artifact IDs in commit messages or commit references in the artifacts’ text. The retriever also
parses commit data to extract Javadocs and inline comments from modified classes and methods, using the comment-
parser library [3]. Finally, all textual content is segmented into sentences using SpaCy’s English transformer pipeline
(en_core_web_trf) [8].
Manuscript submitted to ACM
Recovering Fine-Grained Code Change Rationale from Multiple Software Artifacts                                                          17




                                  Commit URL

        1       Artifact Retriever                    2    Rationale Extractor                 3    Rationale Generator
                                  Artifact
            Code Diff
                                 Repository
                                                                     Sentence                  Component         Code         Actual
                                                                      Parsing                  Description        Diff       Sentence




                                                      Component        Code          Actual
            GitHub                                    Description       Diff        Sentence
                         RegEx          Heuristics
        Search API                                                                                    Prompt             o4-mini



        Commit Message/                 Javadocs/
                                        Code                Prompt             o4-mini                         Goal
        Code Diff            JAVA DOC
                                        Comment
        Pull Request/                    Code                                                                  Need
        Issues Reports                   reviews
                                                                          Goal                                 Alternative
                Retrieved Artifacts                                                                 Rationale Summaries
                                                                          Need

                                                                          Alternative
                                                     Artifacts w/ labeled components
                                                       Fig. 4. Argus’s Architecture




  This retrieval step is essential because, as shown by our qualitative study (Section 3), rationale information is
distributed across multiple artifacts. By collecting information from the artifacts most likely associated with a commit,
Argus provides subsequent phases with a comprehensive set of potentially rationale content.
  Because the retriever relies on explicit references and heuristic matching, it may retrieve artifacts that are only
incidentally related to the target commit. We therefore analyze the downstream effect of such retrieval noise in Section 5.

4.2   Rationale Component Extractor

The goal of this module is to identify sentences that express rationale components. The module takes as input the
sentences produced by the Artifact Retriever and outputs those sentences annotated with one or more rationale
component labels. Argus focuses on the rationale components Goal, Need, and Alternatives because our empirical study
found them to be the most frequently documented across software artifacts.
  To perform the labeling, this module prompts the LLM to reason about the meaning of each sentence and assign one
or more component labels, or none if the sentence does not express rationale. The prompt follows a task decomposition
approach [51], incorporating component definitions, sentences grouped by specific artifact, and few-shot exemplars
with ground-truth labels and explanations. This design guides the LLM to interpret sentence semantics and apply
fine-grained classification. Section 5 provides details of our data-driven methodology, which experimented with different
prompting strategies to determine the most accurate approach to guide the LLM for this task.
                                                                                                             Manuscript submitted to ACM
18                            Mehedi Sun, Antu Saha, Nadeeshan De Silva, Antonio Mastropaolo, and Oscar Chaparro


4.3    Rationale Component Generator

The goal of this module is to generate concise and human-readable summaries of the identified rationale components.
This module takes the sentences labeled by the Rationale Component Extractor and outputs a summary for each rationale
component. To generate these summaries, this module prompts the LLM to reason over information collected from
multiple artifacts, connect related pieces of information, and synthesize them into coherent descriptions that capture
the essence of each component. Similar to the extractor, the prompt follows a task-decomposition approach [51],
incorporating component definitions, labeled sentences grouped by artifact, and few-shot exemplars with ground-
truth labels. As detailed in Section 5, we adopted a data-driven methodology, experimenting with different prompting
strategies and contexts to guide the LLM toward producing accurate and correct rationale summaries.

4.4    Argus’s Design Rationale

Argus adopts a decomposition-based design in which rationale identification and rationale generation are performed
as separate LLM tasks. We chose this design for three reasons. First, rationale information is often distributed across
multiple artifacts and interleaved with large amounts of irrelevant content. Processing all retrieved artifacts in a single
prompt may therefore reduce the model’s ability to focus on rationale-relevant information, particularly as input length
increases [60, 65, 71, 116]. Second, prior work has shown that decomposing complex reasoning tasks into smaller sub-
tasks can improve LLM performance [51]. Similar strategies have proven effective in software-engineering tasks such as
automated program repair [114] and code generation [63]. Third, decomposition improves interpretability and debugging.
The intermediate rationale-identification output can be independently inspected and evaluated, making it easier to
understand and diagnose errors. This design also enables future extensions, such as alternative rationale-generation
strategies tailored to specific developers or software-engineering tasks.

4.5    LLM Selection

Argus uses GPT-o4-mini as its underlying language model. We selected GPT-o4-mini because it was one of the strongest
reasoning-oriented models available when this project began (mid-2025) and had demonstrated to be highly effective
across software-engineering tasks, including fault localization [113] and code generation [68, 97]. We therefore used
this model throughout prompt development, repeated executions, and user evaluation. To assess whether Argus’s
effectiveness depends on the underlying LLM, we conducted a cross-model analysis using more recent models, including
GPT-5.2 and Gemini 3 Flash. The results of this analysis are presented in Section 5.4.

5     Argus’s Development and Evaluation

We adopted a data-driven methodology to develop prompt templates for Argus’s two main modules: rationale component
identification and generation. Our goal was to determine the most effective prompting strategies to guide GPT-o4-mini
in accomplishing both tasks. To this end, we used a development set consisting of a subset of the 63 commits and their
corresponding ground-truth data (i.e., manually annotated artifact sentences). The best-performing prompting strategies
were then incorporated into Argus and evaluated against baseline prompting approaches on a held-out evaluation set
comprising the remaining commits and their associated ground-truth data. This evaluation allowed us to assess the
accuracy of rationale component identification and the correctness of the rationale summaries generated by Argus.
     We experimented with five prompt templates that implement well-known prompting strategies across Argus’s two
modules: rationale component identification (three templates) and generation (two templates). The strategies include
zero-shot, few-shot, and reasoning-based few-shot prompting, all combined with task decomposition prompting [51].
Manuscript submitted to ACM
Recovering Fine-Grained Code Change Rationale from Multiple Software Artifacts                                             19


  Importantly, in all experiments of this section, we included both artifacts relevant and irrelevant to the commits.
This choice reflects real-world deployment of Argus, where the artifact retriever is expected to return both types.
  With this in mind, we addressed the following research questions (RQs):
 RQ3 : What prompting strategies are most effective to identify rationale components in software artifacts?
 RQ4 : What prompting strategies are most effective to generate rationale component summaries?
 RQ5 : How accurate is Argus’s rationale identification module?
 RQ6 : How accurate are Argus’s generated rationale summaries?
  RQ3 and RQ4 focus on developing Argus’s prompts by comparing different prompting strategies for rationale
identification and generation on the development set. The best-performing strategies are then integrated into Argus.
RQ5 and RQ6 evaluate the resulting system on the held-out evaluation set, measuring the accuracy of rationale
identification and the correctness of the generated rationale summaries.
  Section 5.1 describes the process we followed to construct the dataset to answer our RQs. Sections 5.2 and 5.3 describe
the methodology and results of our data-driven approach for Argus’s prompt development (RQ3 and RQ4 ), while
Sections 5.4 and 5.5 present Argus’s evaluation methodology and results (RQ5 and RQ6 ).


5.1    Dataset Construction

Prompt development and evaluation relied on two types of ground truth data: (1) manually labeled artifact sentences
tagged with the rationale components they convey (for identification), and (2) manually written descriptions of the
three rationale components Argus targets: Goal, Need, and Alternatives (for generation).
  The annotated sentences were obtained from the dataset built in our qualitative study reported in Section 3. The
ground truth component descriptions were created by the same two annotators who participated in that study. One
annotator synthesized clear and concise summaries for each commit by reviewing the commit diff, message, and
artifact sentences annotated with Goal, Need, and Alternatives. The second annotator then reviewed the summaries
for clarity, correctness, and accuracy compared to the labeled sentences. Disagreements were resolved by discussion
until consensus was reached. This iterative, multi-coder approach was repeated in six rounds of 10–13 commits each,
producing concise and reliable summaries while mitigating subjectivity and errors.
  We applied this methodology to all 63 commits collected in the qualitative study, and divided them into two subsets:
 • The development set, consisting of 13 commits, is used to answer RQ3 and RQ4 . This dataset is exclusively used for
      prompt formulation and refinement and was randomly selected to include a diverse set of commits across projects,
      rationale components, and artifact types. It covers all five projects and includes 13 commits with all rationale
      components represented (13 with Goal, 9 with Need, and 4 with Alternatives), as well as 76 artifacts: 18 Pull Requests,
      18 Code Comments, 13 Commit Messages, 12 Class Javadocs, 7 Issues, 6 Code Reviews, and 2 Method Javadocs.
 • The evaluation set, containing the remaining 50 commits, is used to answer RQ5 and RQ6 . This dataset contains 48
      commits with Goal, 25 with Need, and 5 with Alternatives, and comprises 263 artifacts: 59 Pull Requests, 50 Code
      Comments, 50 Commit Messages, 45 Class Javadocs, 30 Issues, 15 Code Reviews, and 14 Method Javadocs.
  About 12% of sentences in the development set and 17% in the evaluation set came from irrelevant artifacts, helping
us refine and assess prompts under realistic settings. Together, these two sets provide coverage across all five projects,
multiple rationale components, and diverse artifact sources, allowing us to develop and assess Argus across varied
rationale-extraction scenarios.

                                                                                                   Manuscript submitted to ACM
20                                            Mehedi Sun, Antu Saha, Nadeeshan De Silva, Antonio Mastropaolo, and Oscar Chaparro


                          Zero Shot                                                                                            Zero Shot
                                                                            Zero-Shot (CI-ZS): Task
                                                                         description + instruction + input                                           Zero Shot (CG-ZS): Task
                       Task Summary                                         data + response format                          Task Summary           description + instruction + input
                                                                                                                                                      data + response format
                      Input Description                                                                                    Input Description
                                                                            Few-Shot (CI-FS): Task




                                              Reasoning-based Few Shot
                         Instructions                                    description + instruction + input                                            Few Shot (CG-FS): Task
                                                                                                                              Instructions
                                                                          data + response format + two                                             description + instruction + input
                                                                               exemplar commits
      Few Shot




                                                                                                                                                    data + response format + two




                                                                                                             Few Shot
                   Component Description                                                                                Component Description
                                                                                                                                                         exemplar commits
                        Code Change                                      Reasoning-based Few-Shot
                                                                         (CI-RFS): Task description +                        Code Change
                                                                           instruction + input data +
                   Sentences from Artifacts
                                                                               response format +                        Sentences from Artifacts
                                                                           two exampler commits +
                       Output Format
                                                                                   reasoning                                Output Format
                                                                          behind exemplar commit's
                         Exemplars
                                                                             sentences annotation                              Exemplar
                         Reasoning



                      (a) Rationale component identification                               (b) Rationale component generation
                                      Fig. 5. Structure of the developed prompts for both of Argus’s main tasks.



5.2              Prompt Development Methodology

Our prompt development process explored three strategies: zero-shot, few-shot, and reasoning-based few-shot prompt-
ing, all combined with task decomposition prompting [51]. For rationale identification, we created three templates (one
per strategy), and for rationale generation, we designed two templates (zero-shot and few-shot). This section describes
how the prompts were developed, the prompting strategies that were evaluated, and the methodology used to assess
their effectiveness.

5.2.1            Prompt Design
 Two of the 13 commits from the development set were selected as exemplars for the few-shot templates chosen
by the annotators. We intentionally limited the number of exemplars to two commits to provide sufficient guidance
while avoiding unnecessarily long prompts. Since each exemplar includes multiple artifact sentences, rationale labels,
and explanations, additional exemplars would substantially increase the amount of context the model must process,
potentially distracting it from reasoning about the target commit. These exemplar commits were drawn from two
different projects, and collectively contain 52 sentences from 10 software artifacts and 6 different rationale components,
providing diverse coverage of rationale components across artifacts.
     Each prompt was initialized from a common template containing standard elements, such as a task description,
instructions, exemplars, input data, and the expected output format, following established prompt-engineering guide-
lines [34]. To illustrate the prompt design, Table 7 presents representative excerpts from the prompts used for rationale
identification and generation. The complete prompt templates are available in our replication package [14].
     We iteratively refined the prompts using the development set of 11 commits. After each round of prompt execution,
we analyzed the model’s outputs, identified common error patterns, and revised the prompts accordingly. For rationale
identification, errors were categorized as false positives and false negatives by comparing the model’s predictions
against the ground-truth annotations. For rationale generation, errors were categorized according to whether the
generated summaries omitted relevant rationale information or introduced information not present in the ground truth.
Two annotators, both authors of this paper, reviewed these errors and refined the prompts through meta-prompting
and consensus-based discussion, deriving additional decision rules and prompt adjustments.
Manuscript submitted to ACM
Recovering Fine-Grained Code Change Rationale from Multiple Software Artifacts                                                     21

Table 7. Prompt snippets used for rationale component identification and generation. The component description element is common
for both tasks
     Prompt
                          Snippet for Component Identification                       Snippet for Component Generation
     Element
                     You are an experienced Java programmer on the            You are an experienced Java programmer on the
                     <project_name> project. Your task is to analyze a set    <project_name> project. Your task is to generate
 Task Summary
                     of sentences, identify whether they express the          concise and accurate rationale components that
                     rationale behind a target code commit ...                explain why a specific code change was made.
                     You will be provided with:                               You will be provided with:
                     – A list of rationale components, each one describing    – A list of rationale component types...
 Input               a different aspect that explains why the code was        – A code diff...
 Description         changed the way it was.                                  – A set of annotated sentences related to the commit...
                     – The diff of the target commit, which shows how one     labeled with rationale components... extracted from
                     or more code files were changed.                         various software artifacts...
                     – Analyze the content of the sentences, identify the     – Analyze the code diff to understand the technical
                     rationale components that they describe, and             nature of the code change.
                     annotate them with those components.                     – Review the annotated sentences to find relevant
 Instructions
                     – Annotate the sentences ... using one or more of the    information about the rationale behind the change... –
                     ... rationale components only if the sentence contains   For each rationale component, identify sentences
                     information about those components...                    labeled with that component and discard irrelevant...
                     GOAL: Describes what changes have been made by           GOAL: Describes what changes have been made by
                     the developer in the code change... indicating what      the developer in the code change... indicating what
 Component           the developer aims to achieve with the code change ...   the developer aims to achieve with the code change ...
 Description         NEED: Describes the specific reason, motivation, or      NEED: Describes the specific reason, motivation, or
                     benefit of the code change. This indicates why the       benefit of the code change. This indicates why the
                     developer wants to make the code change.                 developer wants to make the code change.
                                                                              The following sentences come from the commit
                     The following sentences come from the commit
                                                                              message;
                     message;
                                                                              Id: <Sentence ID>;
 Artifact            Id: <Sentence ID>;
                                                                              Source: COMMIT_MESSAGE;
 Sentences           Source: COMMIT_MESSAGE;
                                                                              Sentence: Unnecessary array in varargs in
                     Sentence: Upate TestName to make the name field
                                                                              AnnotatedBuildrer...
                     volatile.
                                                                              Labels: GOAL, NEED
                                                                              # Response Format:
                     # Response Format (CSV):                                 GOAL: <brief_description>;
 Output Format
                     sentence_id, labels: <ID1>, "<LABEL1>, <LABEL2>..."      NEED: <brief_description>;
                                                                              ALTERNATIVES: <brief_description>
                     Sentence: “Adds @code matcher to the list of
                     requirements for the cause of any thrown exception.”
                     Label: “GOAL”
                     Reason: “This sentence describes what the
                     expectCause() function does. The method adds a
                     matcher requirement for the cause, which aligns with
                     the commit’s goal, i.e., match causes easily using a
 Reasoning           Matcher instead of an explicit Throwable. Hence, it      (Not defined)
                     was labeled as GOAL. It doesn’t describe why the
                     code change was made, i.e., the reason, motivation, or
                     benefit of the code change. Moreover, it does not
                     describe any other potential solution that could be
                     implemented instead of the current implementation.
                     Hence, it is neither labeled as NEED nor
                     ALTERNATIVES.”




                                                                                                          Manuscript submitted to ACM
22                              Mehedi Sun, Antu Saha, Nadeeshan De Silva, Antonio Mastropaolo, and Oscar Chaparro


5.2.2    Prompt Variants for Rationale Identification
 Rationale component identification (CI) is formulated as a multi-label classification task where artifact sentences are
tagged with one or more components (Goal, Need, Alternatives) or none. We explored three prompting strategies, all
using task decomposition [51] (see Figure 5a):
(1) Zero-Shot (CI-ZS): This prompt includes a task summary, an input data description (the definition of the rationale
      components, the commit diff, and the sentences grouped by individual artifact), specific task instructions, the inputs,
      and the output format.
(2) Few-Shot (CI-FS): the prompt extended CI-ZS with two exemplar commits containing labeled and a few unlabeled
      artifact sentences.
(3) Few-Shot-Reasoning (CI-RFS): the prompt further extended the CI-FS prompt with explanations for why the
      exemplar sentences were tagged with specific rationale components. We developed this prompt in two steps. First,
      we used explanations behind each sentence of the example commits to better guide the model. Then, we analyzed
      the failed cases in that prompt and derived a set of rules to improve the prompt.

5.2.3    Prompt Variants for Rationale Generation
 For rationale generation (CG), Argus produces concise rationale descriptions, given sentences previously labeled as
Goal, Need, and/or Alternatives. We designed two templates using task decomposition prompting [51] (see Figure 5b):
(1) Zero-Shot (CG-ZS): the prompt included the task summary, component definitions, specific task instructions, the
      inputs, and the output format. The inputs included the commit diff and the labeled sentences grouped by artifact.
(2) Few-Shot (CG-FS): The prompt extends the CG-ZS prompt with two exemplar commits, including their labeled
      sentences and ground truth rationale summaries.
     We did not employ reasoning-based few-shot prompting for rationale generation because this task operates on
rationale sentences that have already been identified and categorized as Goal, Need, or Alternatives. Unlike rationale
identification, which requires the model to distinguish rationale from non-rationale content and assign fine-grained
labels, rationale generation focuses on synthesizing and summarizing already-selected information. Consequently, we
limited our investigation to zero-shot and few-shot prompting strategies for this task.

5.2.4    Evaluation Methodology of Rationale Identification
 We evaluated rationale identification performance by comparing predicted labels against the ground-truth annotations.
For each rationale component, we computed:
 • True Positives (TP): sentences correctly labeled by the model as expressing the rationale component;
 • False Positives (FP): sentences labeled by the model as expressing the rationale component yet the ground truth
      does not assign that label;
 • True Negatives (TN): sentences correctly identified as not expressing the rationale component; and
 • False Negatives (FN): sentences that express the rationale component according to the ground truth but were not
      labeled as such by the model.
     Based on these values, we calculated precision, recall, and F2-score:
                                   𝑇𝑃                       𝑇𝑃                (1 + 22 ) · 𝑃𝑟𝑒𝑐𝑖𝑠𝑖𝑜𝑛 · 𝑅𝑒𝑐𝑎𝑙𝑙
                   𝑃𝑟𝑒𝑐𝑖𝑠𝑖𝑜𝑛 =                 𝑅𝑒𝑐𝑎𝑙𝑙 =                𝐹2 =
                                 𝑇𝑃 + 𝐹𝑃                  𝑇𝑃 + 𝐹𝑁              (22 · 𝑃𝑟𝑒𝑐𝑖𝑠𝑖𝑜𝑛) + 𝑅𝑒𝑐𝑎𝑙𝑙
     Precision measures the proportion of predicted rationale labels that are correct, while recall measures the proportion
of ground-truth rationale labels that are successfully identified. Overall metrics were computed by aggregating TP, FP,
TN, and FN across all rationale components. We use the F2-score as the primary measure because rationale identification
Manuscript submitted to ACM
Recovering Fine-Grained Code Change Rationale from Multiple Software Artifacts                                                 23


serves as a candidate-retrieval stage for subsequent generation. A false negative doesn’t include relevant rationale
information from the pipeline, which prevents the generation module from using it. In contrast, a false positive retains
the relevant rationale information and introduces additional noise that can be reviewed and disregarded later. We
therefore prioritize recall while still accounting for precision, and report precision, recall, and F2 score separately.
   To account for the non-deterministic behavior of the LLM, we executed each prompt three times, measured its
performance using the metrics described above, and assessed the consistency of the resulting predictions across runs
using Krippendorff’s 𝛼 [58]. We also included 44 sentences from 4 irrelevant artifacts for 3 commits in the development
set to assess the effect of these irrelevant artifacts in our approach. More details are provided in Section 5.3.

5.2.5   Evaluation Methodology of Rationale Generation
 To evaluate summary quality, two researchers independently compared generated outputs with ground truth summaries
at a semantic level, focusing on two dimensions:
 • Information Coverage (IC): the extent to which ground-truth rationale content is captured by the generated
    summary, where higher coverage is more desirable.
 • Extra Information (EI): the extent to which a generated summary includes information beyond the ground-truth
    rationale, where lower amounts of extra information are more desirable.
   Both dimensions were rated on 5-point Likert scales, and throughout this paper both scales are oriented so that higher
is better. For Information Coverage (IC), 5 means every piece of ground-truth rationale is present in the generated
summary and 1 means none of it is. For Extra Information (EI), 5 means the summary introduces no content beyond the
ground truth and 1 means essentially all of its content is unsupported. Raters recorded EI on the natural “amount of
extra information” scale and we inverted it once, at data-entry time, so that every EI value reported below follows the
higher-is-better convention.
   Annotators evaluated rationale summaries at the semantic level rather than based on lexical similarity. For each
rationale component, they first decomposed the ground-truth rationale into its distinct pieces of information and
then assessed the extent to which those pieces were captured by the generated summary. For example, consider the
ground-truth Need: “The protocol register registers a protocol, even when the register attribute is set to false. Besides, the log
message is incorrect.” This rationale contains two distinct pieces of information: (1) the protocol is registered even when
registration is disabled, and (2) the log message is incorrect. A generated rationale would receive a high Information
Coverage score (4–5) if it captured both pieces of information, a moderate score (2–3) if it captured only one of them or
omitted important details, and a low score (1) if it did not capture either. Within these ranges, annotators assigned
higher scores when the generated rationale captured the information more completely and accurately.
   We used explicit guidelines to conduct this evaluation process. For example, assigning lowest score for both IC
(Information Coverage) and EI (Extra Info) if a rationale component was missing from either the generated output
or the ground truth. If a ground-truth rationale component was not generated, we assigned an IC score of 1 because
none of the information associated with that component was generated, and we assigned an EI score of 5 because no
unsupported information was introduced to compare with ground truth. Conversely, if the model generated a rationale
component for which no corresponding component was present in the ground truth, we assigned an IC score of 1
because the generated content did not cover any ground-truth rationale information, and an EI score of 1 because all of
the generated information was considered extra.
   Extra Information (EI) was evaluated independently from Information Coverage (IC). Annotators assessed whether
the generated summary introduced information that was not supported by the ground-truth rationale. Additional
                                                                                                       Manuscript submitted to ACM
24                             Mehedi Sun, Antu Saha, Nadeeshan De Silva, Antonio Mastropaolo, and Oscar Chaparro


details were considered acceptable when they elaborated on or rephrased information already present in the ground
truth. In contrast, unsupported claims, interpretations, or facts not grounded in the reference rationale were penalized
through lower EI scores. This separate evaluation of IC and EI allowed summaries to receive high coverage scores
while still being penalized for introducing unsupported information, or vice versa. Disagreements between the two
annotators were resolved through discussion until consensus was reached.
     Evaluation Metrics. We report the average Information Coverage (IC) and Extra Information (EI) ratings
across evaluated commits. To obtain an overall measure of rationale generation performance that accounts for IC
and EI, we computed the F2-score [93] using the average IC and EI ratings. We use the F2-score because it weights
information coverage twice as heavily as extra information. We consider omissions of important rationale information
more detrimental than the inclusion of some additional information, as incomplete summaries may fail to communicate
the goal, motivations, or alternatives underlying the change.
     Inter-rater Agreement. Overall inter-rater agreement, measured using weighted Cohen’s Kappa (𝜅) [32], was 0.88,
indicating high annotator reliability. We used this index because the Likert scales are ordinal, and disagreements
between distant scores (e.g., 1 vs. 5) are more severe than those between adjacent scores (e.g., 3 vs. 4), which this index
captures. Disagreements were mostly due to subjective interpretation of the summaries, which were resolved through
annotators’ discussion and consensus.
     Prompt Execution and LLM Consistency. We executed each generation prompt using as input the sentences labeled
by the best-performing rationale identification strategy, namely reasoning-based few-shot prompting (see Section 5.3.1).
This setup allowed us to evaluate rationale generation under realistic conditions, where the input may contain both
correctly identified rationale sentences and sentences incorrectly labeled as rationale, including those originating from
relevant and irrelevant artifacts. It also captures cases in which the rationale identification step fails to label sentences
that express rationale, thus propagating missing information to the generation stage.
     Although each prompt was executed three times, we assessed the consistency of the generated summaries across
runs. To this end, we measured semantic similarity using embedding-based cosine similarity computed with OpenAI’s
text-embedding-3-large model [84]. For each commit, we formed the three possible pairs of summaries generated
across the three executions and computed the cosine similarity for each pair. We repeated this process for all commits
and for both the CG-ZS and CG-FS prompts, yielding a total of 66 similarity scores (2 prompts × 11 commits × 3
summary pairs).
     Across these 66 pairs, the average cosine similarity was 0.92, with a median of 0.94 and a first quartile of 0.90,
indicating that the generated summaries were highly consistent across executions despite potential variations in
wording. Similar results were observed for each prompt individually; the complete results are available in our replication
package [14]. Given this high degree of consistency, we evaluated only the summaries generated in the first execution
using the human-evaluation methodology and metrics described above.

5.3     Prompt Development Results

5.3.1    RQ3 : Prompt Development Results for Rationale Identification
 We executed all three identification prompts three times using GPT-o4-mini [83]. To assess the consistency of predictions,
we calculated Krippendorff’s 𝛼 [58] to compute the agreement of the labeling produced by the model across the three
runs. We observed moderate-to-high consistency across runs, with Krippendorff’s 𝛼 ranging from 0.64 to 0.88 across
rationale components: 𝛼 alternative = 0.64, 𝛼 need = 0.72, and 𝛼 goal = 0.88. To address this variation, we adopted a majority-
voting strategy to decide the final label for a sentence: a sentence is assigned a label set 𝑋 (e.g., Goal and Need) only if
Manuscript submitted to ACM
Recovering Fine-Grained Code Change Rationale from Multiple Software Artifacts                                                     25

                             Table 8. Prompt development results for rationale identification (CI)
                                           (a) Results by component and prompt

          Component                  Prompt                  TP    FP      TN      FN   Precision         Recall     F2
                                Zero-Shot (CI-ZS)             28     5     668      3     84.8%            90.3%    89.2%
              Goal              Few-Shot (CI-FS)              27     4     669      4     87.1%            87.1%    87.1%
                          Few-Shot-Reasoning (CI-RFS)         30     1     672      1     96.8%            96.8%    96.8%
                                Zero-Shot (CI-ZS)             19    15     665      5     55.9%            79.2%    73.1%
              Need              Few-Shot (CI-FS)              21    17     663      3     55.3%            87.5%    78.4%
                          Few-Shot-Reasoning (CI-RFS)         22    15     665      2     59.5%            91.7%    82.7%
                                Zero-Shot (CI-ZS)              7    13     683      1     35.0%           87.5%     67.3%
           Alternatives         Few-Shot (CI-FS)               8    13     683      0     38.1%           100.0%    75.5%
                          Few-Shot-Reasoning (CI-RFS)          7     7     689      1     50.0%           87.5%     76.1%
                                Zero-Shot (CI-ZS)             54    33   2016       9     62.1%            85.7%    79.6%
             Overall            Few-Shot (CI-FS)              56    34   2015       7     62.2%            88.9%    81.9%
                          Few-Shot-Reasoning (CI-RFS)         59    23   2026       4     72.0%            93.7%    88.3%

                                       (b) Relative Improvement (RI) between prompts

                                 Comparison               Component       Precision     Recall       F2
                                                              Goal            3%         -4%         -2%
                               Few-Shot (CI-FS)
                                                             Need            -1%         11%          7%
                                      vs
                                                          Alternatives        9%         14%         12%
                               Zero-Shot (CI-ZS)
                                                           Overall           0%          4%          3%
                                                              Goal           11%          11%        11%
                          Few-Shot-Reasoning (CI-RFS)
                                                             Need             8%          5%         6%
                                      vs
                                                          Alternatives       31%         -13%        1%
                               Few-Shot (CI-FS)
                                                           Overall           16%          5%         8%




the model produced the same outcome in at least two of the three runs. The intuition is that agreement across multiple
executions increases confidence in the correctness of the prediction. Experiments on the development set (available
in our replication package [14]) confirmed that the voting approach outperformed the average performance of the
individual runs, yielding relative improvements of 7% in precision, 3% in recall, and 4% in F2-Score. Based on these
results, we implemented the voting approach for all three rationale identification prompts described in Section 5.2.4
and report their performance in this section.
  Table 8a reports the performance of the three prompting strategies across components. Overall, reasoning-based
few-shot (CI-RFS) achieves the highest accuracy, with 72.0% precision, 93.7% recall, and 88.3% F2-score. It substantially
outperforms both the few-shot (CI-FS) and zero-shot (CI-ZS) strategies, which rank second and third, respectively.
In practical terms, this means that few-shot-reasoning (CI-RFS) correctly identifies about nine out of ten rationale
sentences, and that roughly seven out of ten sentences it identifies as rationale indeed convey rationale. These results
indicate that providing exemplars with explanations enables the LLM to better learn how to recognize rationale. In
fact, when examining the relative improvement (RI) between strategies (Table 8b), we observe that the presence of
explanations for the exemplars is the key factor driving few-shot-reasoning (CI-RFS)’s superior performance, yielding
gains over CI-FS of 16% in precision, 5% in recall, and 8% in F2-score (compared to few-shot (CI-FS) vs. zero shot (CI-ZS)
improvements of 0%, 4%, and 3%, respectively).
                                                                                                           Manuscript submitted to ACM
26                                      Mehedi Sun, Antu Saha, Nadeeshan De Silva, Antonio Mastropaolo, and Oscar Chaparro

                         Table 9. Identified rationale sentences from irrelevant artifacts by each prompt or approach.
                         (a) Development set                                                        (b) Evaluation set

               Input Sentences           Identified Rationale                            Input Sentences        Identified Rationale
Prompt         Rel.           Irrel.    #Rat. Sent.    From Irrel.            Prompt      Rel.       Irrel.   #Rat. Sent.      From Irrel.
CI-ZS           704              44               84            0             Argus      1,890         390               311           12
CI-FS           704              44               90            0             CI-FS      1,890         390               329           14
CI-RFS          704              44               81            0



     Examining the performance achieved for each rationale component in Table 8a, we observe that Goal is the “easiest”
to identify, with Few-Shot-Reasoning (CI-RFS) achieving very high precision and recall (96%+). For Need and Alterna-
tives, Few-Shot-Reasoning (CI-RFS) attains high recall but lower precision (59.5% and 50%, respectively). As rationale
identification is an intermediate retrieval step for rationale generation, we prioritized recall during prompt development.
False negatives are especially harmful because missed rationale sentences cannot be used by the generator in the next
step. False positives, however, can introduce unsupported information into the rationale generation input and the
generation step, or a developer can still filter out or ignore that unsupported information. Therefore, we do not treat
low precision as harmless as missing rationale sentences. Besides, we evaluate the downstream effect of FPs indirectly
through the rationale generation results, where the Extra Information (EI) metric captures unsupported content in
the generated summaries (see Section 5.3.2). From this perspective, we consider CI-RFS’s performance acceptable for
the task. Notably, irrelevant artifacts did not affect rationale identification during prompt development. As shown in
Table 9a, none of the 44 sentences from irrelevant artifacts in the development set were identified as rationale by any
prompting strategy (see the "From Irrel." column in the table).

5.3.2    RQ4 : Prompt Development Results for Rationale Generation
 Table 10 reports the rationale generation results for the two prompting strategies: Zero-Shot (CG-ZS) and Few-Shot
(CG-FS). The reported values correspond to the average Information Coverage (IC) and Extra Information (EI) ratings
assigned by the evaluators across the 11 development commits. As described in Section 5.2.5, both metrics are measured
on 5-point Likert scales, where higher values indicate better performance. Specifically, higher IC scores indicate that a
larger proportion of the ground-truth rationale is captured in the generated summary, while higher EI scores indicate
that the summary introduces less information beyond the ground truth.
     Overall, both prompts achieve an IC score of 4.0, which indicates that the generated summaries typically capture most
of the information contained in the ground-truth rationale. In addition, the prompts achieve an EI score of 3.3/3.4, sug-
gesting that the generated summaries generally introduce limited amounts of additional information. Since the prompts
use sentences identified by the rationale identification module, their performance is affected by incorrect identifications
of the module. Across the development commits, the reasoning-based few-shot identification prompt (CI-RFS) produced
23 false positive and 4 false negative sentences. False positives cause the generated rationale to include extra information,
and false negatives remove relevant input information. For example, the sentence, “Network calls can throw checked
‘IOException‘s so you need to declare ‘@Throws(IOException::class)‘ on every single function on your interface, or it will blow
up at runtime.”6 was labeled as Alternatives by the LLM. Commit 9d683b7 did not have any alternative content in the re-
lated artifacts as determined by the annotators. Since the sentence was mislabeled as Alternatives, the generated rationale
also included an Alternatives summary. This resulted in reduced information coverage (IC) and extra information (EI).

6 Project: Retrofit;   Source: Issue #3128;   Commit: 9d683b7
Manuscript submitted to ACM
Recovering Fine-Grained Code Change Rationale from Multiple Software Artifacts                                               27

Table 10. Prompt development results for rationale generation (CG). F2-score weights Information Coverage (IC) twice as much as
Extra Information (EI). Higher EI values indicate less extra information
                                             (a) Results by component and prompt

                                                             Information             Extra
                   Component               Prompt                                                      F2
                                                             Coverage (IC)      Information (EI)
                                    Zero-Shot (CG-ZS)              4.7                  3.6            4.5
                       Goal
                                     Few-Shot (CG-FS)              4.3                  3.5            4.1
                                     Zero-Shot (CG-ZS)             4.0                  3.6            3.9
                       Need
                                     Few-Shot (CG-FS)              4.7                  4.0            4.6
                                     Zero-Shot (CG-ZS)             2.7                  2.3            2.6
                   Alternatives
                                     Few-Shot (CG-FS)              2.7                  2.5            2.6
                                     Zero-Shot (CG-ZS)             4.0                  3.3            3.8
                      Overall
                                     Few-Shot (CG-FS)              4.0                  3.4            3.9

                                        (b) Relative Improvement (RI) between prompts

                                                           Information             Extra
                      Comparison          Component                                                   F2
                                                           Coverage (IC)      Information (EI)
                                               Goal             -10.6%               -5.3%           -9.3%
                   Few-Shot (CG-FS)
                                              Need               15.2%                9.9%           13.9%
                          vs
                                           Alternatives          0.0%                 6.7%            1.5%
                   Zero-Shot (CG-ZS)
                                            Overall              0.0%                1.7%            0.4%




   For Goal, the zero-shot generation prompt (CG-ZS) performed 10.6% and 5.3% better than the zero-shot prompt
(CG-FS) on IC and EI, respectively. In contrast, for Need, the few-shot prompt (CG-FS) achieves 15.2% higher IC (4.7 vs.
4.0) and 9.9% higher EI (4.0 vs. 3.6). For Alternatives, the two prompts achieve similar performance on IC, while the
few-shot prompt (CG-FS) achieves a 6.7% higher EI. For Need and Alternatives, providing prompt exemplars helped the
model produce more accurate summaries (i.e., covering more of the ground truth while including less extra information).
However, the exemplars were not as effective for generating Goal.
   Overall, both prompting strategies are comparable. However, few-shot prompting (CG-FS) offers slightly more
benefits for rationale generation, as it offers overall gains in performance compared to zero-shot prompting, particularly
for generating Need and Alternatives. For these reasons, we selected few-shot prompting (CG-FS) as our prompting
strategy for Argus.


    RQ3 and RQ4 Findings: For rationale identification, combining reasoning-based few-shot exemplars with
   task-decomposition prompting outperformed both zero-shot and few-shot prompting, achieving the highest
   precision, recall, and F2-score across all rationale components.
   For rationale generation, zero-shot and few-shot prompting produced similarly accurate summaries overall,
   although few-shot prompting provided modest improvements for generating Need and Alternatives summaries.
   Overall, rationale identification benefits substantially from exemplar explanations, whereas rationale generation
   is less sensitive to the choice of prompting strategy once rationale information has been identified.

                                                                                                     Manuscript submitted to ACM
28                                 Mehedi Sun, Antu Saha, Nadeeshan De Silva, Antonio Mastropaolo, and Oscar Chaparro

                   Table 11. Argus’s rationale component identification performance on the evaluation dataset
                                              (a) Results by component and prompt

                   Component              Prompt           TP     FP     TN    FN     Precision    Recall    F2
                                          Argus            105     32   2138      5     76.6%      95.5%    91.0%
                       Goal
                                      Few-Shot (CI-FS)     103     40   2130      7     72.0%      93.6%    88.3%
                                          Argus             51     79   2145     5      39.2%      91.1%    72.0%
                       Need
                                      Few-Shot (CI-FS)      49     83   2141     7      37.1%      87.5%    68.8%
                                          Argus              8     44   2226     2      15.4%      80.0%    43.5%
                    Alternatives
                                      Few-Shot (CI-FS)       9     53   2217     1      14.5%      90.0%    44.1%
                                          Argus            164   155    6509     12     51.4%      93.2%    80.2%
                      Overall
                                      Few-Shot (CI-FS)     161   176    6488     15     47.8%      91.5%    77.3%
                                           (b) Relative Improvement (RI) between prompts

                                     Comparison          Component      Precision     Recall      F2
                                                             Goal         6.4%         1.9%      3.0%
                                       Argus
                                                            Need          5.7%         4.1%      4.7%
                                         vs
                                                         Alternatives     6.0%        -11.1%    -1.4%
                                   Few-Shot (CI-FS)
                                                          Overall         7.6%         1.9%     3.7%


5.4     Argus’s Evaluation Methodology
To evaluate Argus ’s two main modules (rationale identification and rationale generation), we applied the best prompting
strategy identified in the previous section (reasoning-based few-shot with task decomposition). The evaluation followed
the same methodology as prompt development, including execution procedures and metrics, with one key difference:
we used 50 commits with corresponding ground-truth data from the evaluation dataset (see Section 5.1).
     Our goal was to assess the accuracy and generalizability of Argus’s prompts, including the quality of the generated
rationale summaries. As a baseline for rationale identification, we used the second-best prompt from the development
phase, since it provides a direct comparison against an alternative prompting strategy for the same task. For rationale
generation, since both candidate prompts performed similarly, we report only the accuracy of Argus’s generated
summaries. To the best of our knowledge, no existing approach from the literature generates fine-grained rationale com-
ponents for code changes by integrating information from multiple software artifacts, as Argus does—see Section 8 for
more details. Consequently, there is no directly comparable technique that could serve as a baseline technique for Argus.
     To understand the impact of the underlying LLM on Argus’s performance, we evaluated Argus with two more recent
models: GPT-5.2 [82] and Gemini 3 Flash [45]. These models (1) have strong code understanding capabilities, (2) can
effectively reason about natural language and source code (3) have been consistently ranked among the top-performing
models [45, 82] in well-known software engineering and code reasoning benchmarks, such as SWE-Bench Verified [49].
This benchmark requires models to reason over natural-language issue descriptions and source code, making them
relevant to our task. Our goal was not to benchmark all available LLMs, but to assess the extent to which Argus’s
performance and behavior vary across different models.
5.5     Argus’s Evaluation Results

5.5.1    RQ5 : Performance of Argus’s Rationale Identification
 Table 11 presents the performance of Argus’s rationale identification module on the evaluation dataset. Overall, Argus
achieves strong recall (93.2%) across rationale components. This indicates that it is generally effective at retrieving
Manuscript submitted to ACM
Recovering Fine-Grained Code Change Rationale from Multiple Software Artifacts                                            29


rationale sentences from the collected artifacts. Its performance for Goal is 91.0% F2, where both precision (76.6%)
and recall (95.5%) are high. In contrast, identifying rationale sentences for Need (72.0% F2) and Alternatives (43.5% F2)
remains challenging, as Argus (and the baseline) produces more false positives than true positives.
   Table 11 also shows that Argus’s rationale identification module outperforms the few-shot identification prompt
(CI-FS) in terms of precision, recall, and F2-score, with overall relative improvements of 7.6%, 1.9%, and 3.7%. This trend
holds for both Goal and Need, but not for Alternatives: Argus improves precision at the expense of recall. Still, in terms
of F2-score, Argus performs on par with the baseline for Alternatives. We do not consider the recall drop particularly
problematic, since it is explained by Argus missing only one Alternatives sentence out of ten. More importantly,
compared to the baseline, Argus reduces false positives for Alternatives from 53 to 44. Taken together, these results
indicate that Argus is more accurate than the baseline at identifying rationale sentences in artifacts.
   Comparing these evaluation results with the prompt development outcomes in Table 8a, we observe a consistent
trend: Argus achieves somewhat lower recall but substantially higher precision across components, particularly for
Alternatives. The baseline shows similar behavior for Need and Alternatives. Two main factors explain these findings. First,
Argus misclassified non-Alternatives sentences as Alternatives because they contain phrasing suggestive of alternatives.
Sentences such as “Workaround [for] the problem by adding this code to run early in your program: <CODE_SNIPPET> It’s
caused by mixing both AOSP’s built-in HttpURLConnection and OkHttp in the same process.”7 may be coded as Alternatives
because it explicitly uses the term workaround. However, a follow-up discussion in this Issue #666 states that this
workaround was already present in the application and that this workaround is not related to the actual problem. Thus,
it was not a candidate solution considered for the target change. Second, the few-shot exemplars may not capture
the diverse ways the Alternatives component is expressed, such as rejected solutions, suggestions, comparisons, and
workarounds. With only two exemplar commits, the model may incorrectly label descriptions of the implemented
solution as Alternatives. For example, the sentence “Another option would be to keep it ‘@Transactional‘ and add a
note in the Javadoc that the user can annotate a given test class with ‘@Transactional(propagation = NOT_SUPPORTED)‘
to disable transactional test support.8 ” describes a possible implementation. However, after analyzing the associated
code change, we found that this solution is the Selected Alternative. In our taxonomy, Alternatives captures candidate
solutions that were discussed but not used, whereas the implemented solution is captured as Selected Alternative. Thus,
this false positive suggests that Argus did not sufficiently relate the sentence to the code change to determine whether
the proposed solution was Alternatives or Selected Alternative. Future versions of Argus could also use a larger or
retrieval-based exemplar set so that the model is exposed to a broader range of Alternatives expressions, including
rejected options, tentative suggestions, workarounds, and explicit trade-off discussions.
   We also investigated whether the inclusion of 390 sentences from 39 irrelevant artifacts for 11 commits in the
evaluation dataset increased the likelihood of misclassifications (see Table 9). However, we found that only 12 of the
311 sentences (3.9%) identified as rationale by Argus originated from irrelevant artifacts. This indicates that Argus is
largely robust to noise introduced by the Artifact Retriever.

5.5.2    RQ6 : Performance of Argus’s Rationale Generation
 Table 12 shows the quality of the rationale summaries generated by Argus on the evaluation dataset. Across the 97
evaluated rationale-component instances, Argus achieved an average Information Coverage (IC) score of 3.8, an Extra
Information (EI) score of 3.2, and an F2 score of 3.7. Both IC and EI are measured on 5-point scales, where higher values

7 Project: OkHttp;   Source: Issue #666; Commit: 4c86085
8 Project: Spring-boot;  Source: Issue #23630; Commit: a5b2778
                                                                                                  Manuscript submitted to ACM
30                                Mehedi Sun, Antu Saha, Nadeeshan De Silva, Antonio Mastropaolo, and Oscar Chaparro

Table 12. Argus’s generated rationale quality (IC = Information Coverage; EI=Extra Information; i.e., components generated by Argus
but absent from the ground truth because of false-positive sentences)
                                                               Information            Extra
                         Component            Prompt                                                   F2
                                                               Coverage (IC)     Information (EI)
                             Goal         Few-Shot (CG-FS)           4.5                 3.7           4.3
                            Need          Few-Shot (CG-FS)           3.5                 3.2           3.4
                         Alternatives     Few-Shot (CG-FS)           2.1                 1.5           1.9
                              Overall    Few-Shot (CG-FS)            3.8                 3.2           3.7




indicate better performance. Thus, the overall IC score indicates that the summaries captured a substantial portion of
the ground-truth rationale, while the EI score indicates that they introduced some extra information.
     Argus’s performance varied considerably across rationale components. Goal components achieved the highest
scores, with an IC of 4.5, an EI of 3.7, and an F2 of 4.3. These results indicate that Argus generally captured nearly all of
the ground-truth Goal information while introducing relatively little unsupported content. For Need, the IC score of 3.5
indicates substantial but incomplete coverage, while the EI score of 3.2 suggests that the generated summaries contained
some additional information not supported by the ground truth. Alternatives was the most challenging component: its
IC score of 2.1 indicates limited coverage of the ground-truth rationale, and its EI score of 1.5 indicates that much of the
generated information was extra.
     These results are affected by errors propagated from the rationale identification module, whose predicted sentences
are used as input to rationale generation. Specifically, Argus generated rationale components for commits that did not
contain ground truth rationale of certain types (e.g., some commits had no Goal, others had no Need, and others had no
Alternatives), because the identification module incorrectly labeled sentences as containing rationale. As a result, Argus
generated rationale where none was expected. This occurred in 2 of the 50 commits where Argus incorrectly generated
a Goal, 9 of the 33 commits for Need, and 9 of the 14 commits for Alternatives. These cases received the lowest possible
IC and EI scores as a penalty, substantially reducing the overall scores, particularly for Alternatives. These findings
show that false positives during rationale identification have an important impact on rationale generation.
     False negatives from rationale identification can also affect the rationale generation module. When sentences
expressing a ground truth component are not identified, the generation module may receive incomplete input or
produce no summary for that component. Such cases reduce IC because relevant rationale information cannot be
recovered, although they do not introduce extra information.
     For the generated components that contain irrelevant information, the main impact was on Extra Information (EI).
This is reflected in the lower overall EI score of 3.0, compared with the overall IC score of 3.8. The Goal and Need
summaries still captured most or all of the ground-truth rationale (IC = 5.0 and 4.0), but their EI scores of 3.5 indicate that
some extra information was included. The effect was stronger for Alternatives, where the generated summary received
an EI score of 1.0. These results suggest that irrelevant information primarily reduces EI by a small margin (6.7%).
     Overall, the results show that Argus produces accurate Goal summaries and reasonably informative Need summaries,
whereas generating accurate Alternatives summaries remains difficult, primarily because this component is the most
sensitive to errors propagated from rationale identification.
Manuscript submitted to ACM
Recovering Fine-Grained Code Change Rationale from Multiple Software Artifacts                                            31


     RQ5 and RQ6 Findings: Argus identifies Goal sentences in artifacts with high accuracy (76.6% precision
    and 95.5% recall), while its performance is lower for Need and Alternatives sentences. Nevertheless, Argus
    outperforms the baseline second-best prompting strategy by 7.6% in precision, 1.9% in recall, and overall 3.7% in
    F2-score, and remains robust to irrelevant artifact content. For rationale generation, Argus produces accurate
    Goal summaries that capture nearly all ground-truth information, whereas Need and Alternatives summaries are
    less accurate, primarily due to false positives from the rationale identification module.


5.5.3    Illustrative Example of Argus’s Rationale Identification and Synthesis
 To illustrate how Argus reconstructs rationale from multiple artifacts, we discuss Retrofit’s commit 329a9fd shown
in Listing 1. This commit introduced a new overload of Response.success() that allows callers to specify an HTTP
status code when creating a successful response.
   The commit message, “Ability to add HTTP status code to Response.success,” provides a brief description of the change
and conveys its high-level Goal. However, it does not explain why the change was needed or what problem motivated the
implementation. Additional rationale information appears in the associated pull request (PR) discussion (PR #2715 [7]),
where developers explain that tests were previously limited to responses with status code 200 OK. Consequently,
developers could not easily verify behavior for other successful HTTP status codes, such as 204 No Content.
   Both artifacts provide complementary pieces of rationale. The commit message captures what was added, while the
pull request explains why the change was introduced. Reconstructing the rationale for this commit therefore requires
integrating information from both sources rather than relying on the commit message alone.
   In contrast, Argus synthesizes this information into concise rationale summaries. The generated Goal explains the
new API behavior introduced by the change, while the generated Need explicitly captures the testing motivation behind
it. By combining rationale information distributed across the commit message and pull request, Argus produces a
coherent explanation ready for developers to consume when understanding the change.
   More broadly, this example reflects a pattern observed throughout our empirical study described in Section 3: rationale
information is often distributed across multiple artifacts, requiring developers to connect complementary sources
to reconstruct a change’s rationale. This observation motivated the design of Argus and its focus on cross-artifact
rationale identification and synthesis.
5.5.4    Failure Analysis
 To better understand the limitations of Argus, we qualitatively analyzed the sentences that were incorrectly classified
during rationale component identification and generation. Specifically, we inspected false positive and false negative
predictions for each rationale component and grouped the errors according to recurring patterns.
Rationale Identification Failures. Across the three rationale components, the LLM produced 155 false positive and
12 false negative component predictions. These consisted of 32 false positives and 5 false negatives for Goal, 79 and 5
for Need, and 44 and 2 for Alternatives, respectively.
   Goal. We inspected these false positives and false negatives produced by the LLM for the Goal component and
identified several common error patterns. First, the LLM sometimes labeled low-level implementation details as
Goal. For example, sentences such as “I also removed the use of Pattern9 ” and “Changed to use mkdirs() and added a
test for paths that contain a forward slash10 ” describe low-level implementation actions rather than the overall objective
9 Project: JUnit4;    Source: PR #1402; Commit: c85c614
10 Project: JUnit4;    Source: Code review comment from PR #1402;   Commit: c85c614
                                                                                                  Manuscript submitted to ACM
     32                                  Mehedi Sun, Antu Saha, Nadeeshan De Silva, Antonio Mastropaolo, and Oscar Chaparro

      Commit message: Ability to add HTTP status code to Response.success (#2715)
1     diff --git a/retrofit/src/main/java/retrofit2/Response.java b/retrofit/src/main/java/retrofit2/Response.java
2     @@ -35,6 +35,22 @@ public final class Response<T> {
3
4     + public static <T> Response<T> success(int code, @Nullable T body) {
5     +   if (code < 200 || code >= 300) {
6     +     throw new IllegalArgumentException("code < 200 or >= 300: " + code);
7     +   }
8     +   return success(body, new okhttp3.Response.Builder()
9     +       .code(code)
10    +       .message("Response.success()")
11    +       .protocol(Protocol.HTTP_1_1)
12    +       .request(new Request.Builder().url("http://localhost/").build())
13    +       .build());
14    + }

      Associated Pull Request
       PR #2715: Ability to add HTTP status code to Response.success
       Comment #1: “When writing tests using Retrofit, it would be great if there were a way to set the ‘success’ HTTP status code in order to verify the
       functionality of other status codes, such as 204 No Content.”

      Argus-Generated Rationale
       Goal: Add a new overload of Response.success(int code, T body) that creates a synthetic successful response with the specified HTTP status
       code and deserialized body.
       Need: Enable tests to set the “success” HTTP status code, for example 204 No Content, when using Response.success, so behavior for different
       success codes can be verified.

     Listing 1. Generated rationale from the Retrofit commit 329a9fd [15]. Although the commit message and pull request only state the
     goal briefly, Argus’s generated rationale explains both the implemented API behavior and the testing need behind the change.


     of the change. Similarly, the LLM incorrectly labels these low-level implementation details in Class Javadocs and Method
     Javadocs with the change’s Goal. For instance, the method Javadoc sentence: “Returns an input stream containing one or
     more certificate PEM files11 ” describe a helper method in a newly added CustomTrust recipe that reads PEM certificates
     before constructing an SSLContext. Thus, the sentence describes local method-level details rather than the overall
     objective of the commit: to create a custom trust recipe that demonstrates how to convert PEM certificates into an
     SSLContext. Although the method contributes to this objective, the LLM failed to distinguish the implementation
     details from the broader commit-level Goal.
          Second, the LLM sometimes labeled sentences describing the cause of a failure as Goal. For example, “The
     underlying cause of the failure is a NullPointerException12 ” identifies the cause of the reported failure but does not
     express the intention of the code change. The Goal of this commit is Update MavenSettings ... to fix NullPointerException
     but Argus considered this sentence as the Goal, instead of as a Need. According to the participants in Safwan et al.’s
     study [98], some components can overlap: “In terms of overlap among components, one participant thought that goal and
     need can be the same most of the time and preferred to merge them together”.
          Finally, some false positives were context dependent generic statements which do not provide enough information,
     such as “Here’s my proposed fix for #38013 .” In this case, additional contextual information is needed, particularly from
     pull request #380, yet the LLM considered them as the Goal.
          For Goal false negatives, the LLM sometimes missed Goal information phrased as a potential solution. For
     example, “Another option would be to keep it @Transactional and add a note in the Javadoc...14 ” and “One possible solution
     11 Project: OKHttp;   Source: Method Javadocs from CustomTrust.java;    Commit: 2e07d30
     12 Project: Spring-Boot;  Source: Issue #4826; Commit: c4f756d
     13 Project: JUnit4; Source: PR#752; Commit: 445ea85
     14 Project: Spring-Boot; Source: Issue #23630; Commit: a5b2778

     Manuscript submitted to ACM
Recovering Fine-Grained Code Change Rationale from Multiple Software Artifacts                                            33


is to subclass the DefaultConfiguration and set register shutdown hook to false15 ” express possible implementation
goals, but their alternative-like phrasing may have led the model to avoid labeling them as Goal.
   Need. The LLM identified 130 sentences as containing Need information. Of these, 79 were false positives. In addition,
the LLM missed five Need sentences, counted as false negatives. Most Need false positives occurred when the LLM
treated problem-related sentences as the motivation for the target change. For example, sentences such as “Debug
mode is not logging web and sql related loggers16 ” describe observed failures or problems. However, the commit is about
polishing the existing codebase, and the Need is to “Remove unnecessary package”, yet the LLM failed to consider the
broader perspective of the commit and misclassified the problem description as Need.
   Second, the LLM labeled technical information or background context as Need. For instance, “RpcContext
may already have been changed when callback happens17 ” explains why the RpcContext must be restored around
an asynchronous callback. However, the target commit modifies callback chaining so that exceptions thrown by
onResponse or onError can be propagated through the returned asynchronous result; it does not introduce or modify
the RpcContext restoration behavior. So, the sentence provides relevant background about the surrounding code but
does not state the motivation for the target change. We observed this behavior in our prompt development process and
attempted to address the issue by including this rule in the prompt: “If the discussed information ... is not related to the
actual code change, it will not be labeled as any component.” However, more guidance is needed for the LLM to avoid
these cases.
   Third, the LLM sometimes misclassified logs, stack traces, and reproduction evidence as Need, such as long
exception traces showing a NullPointerException or a failing test. These sentences are useful evidence, but they
mainly support the existence of a problem rather than directly stating the problem or rationale for the change.
   For Need false negatives, we observed that the LLM missed Need sentences when the motivation was expressed as
a design principle rather than as an explicit problem or failure. For example, consider the sentences from Spring
Boot’s commit 8f23ee4, “Support property based MeterFilters18 ” and “Our recommendation for library authors is always
just instrument with plain timers and let application developers decide at the last minute which summary statistics they
want via filters19 ”. The Need only becomes clear when these two sentences are interpreted together: property-based
MeterFilters are needed to let developers configure metric statistics, introducing flexibility. The LLM likely missed
this case because it may not be able to consider the broad context of the change and considered these sentences in
isolation. During prompt development, we observed the same problem and introduced this rule in the prompt: “Do not
annotate in isolation. Consider the broader context provided by surrounding sentences and related artifacts.” However, the
LLM requires additional context or guidance for avoiding these issues.
   Alternatives. For Alternatives, the LLM identified 52 sentences as describing Alternatives. Of these, 44 were false
positives. Additionally, the LLM missed two Alternatives sentences, counted as false negatives. Most Alternatives
false positives occurred when the LLM treated suggestions as evidence of an alternative solution, even when
the sentence did not describe a concrete implementation option or did not consider broader context for the target
change. For example, consider this sentence, “Workaround [of] the problem [is] by adding this code to run early in
your program: OkHttpClient okHttpClient = new OkHttpClient(); URL.setURLStreamHandlerFactory(okHttpClient)20 ”. In

15 Project: Spring-Boot; Source: Issue #11360; Commit: 8a0f035
16 Project: Spring-Boot; Source: Issue #15986; Commit: 978f801
17 Project: Apache Dubbo; Source: Code Comments from AsyncRpcResult.java;   Commit: b5408b7
18 Project: Spring-Boot; Source: Issue #11800; Commit: 8f23ee4
19 Project: Spring-Boot; Source: Issue #11800; Commit: 8f23ee4
20 Project: OKHttp; Source: Issue #666; Commit: 4c86085

                                                                                                  Manuscript submitted to ACM
34                                Mehedi Sun, Antu Saha, Nadeeshan De Silva, Antonio Mastropaolo, and Oscar Chaparro


isolation, this sentence appears to propose an alternative solution. However, the subsequent sentence, “We already have
that workaround in, first line in Application’s oncreate21 ” indicates that the workaround had already been implemented
and was therefore not related to the problem or it is not a candidate solution for the target change. We also observed
similar cases during prompt development and added the following rule: CommitID_SourceID_TextID_LocalSentenceID
... If consecutive sentences share the same CommitID_SourceID_TextID, it means they are logically grouped within the
artifacts’ text. For labeling the sentences, consider these groups as context (as they may give more information about
the sentences).” Nevertheless, these errors suggest that further guidance is needed to help the LLM use surrounding
context consistently.
     For Alternatives false negatives, the LLM may miss alternatives expressed as non-technical workarounds. For
example, the sentence about “downgrad[ing] to 1.3.0 and used the app for a while without issues... I’m downgrading okhttp
in this branch now, and I’ll close this issue if I’m ever able to reproduce it on 1.3.x.22 ” describes a workaround or alternative
path in a bug reproduction context from an Issue. As a result, the LLM may have treated it as a debugging step rather
than Alternatives content.
Rationale Generation Failures. For rationale generation, we observed the lower-rated Extra Information (EI) and
Information Coverage (IC) scored rationales (less than 2). We found 7 such rationales, and most of these failures were
caused by errors propagated from the rationale identification module. In particular, false-positive sentences
identified as Goal, Need, or Alternatives were passed to the generator as input, which sometimes caused the LLM to
generate summaries for components that were absent from the ground truth. This explains the lower EI scores, because
the generated summaries included the extra information. This issue was especially visible for Need and Alternatives,
where the LLM sometimes generated rationale from problem descriptions, technical background, or suggestion-like
sentences that were incorrectly labeled during identification. Conversely, false negatives in the identification step
removed relevant rationale evidence before generation, causing the generated summaries to miss important ground-truth
information and lowering IC. For example, when the LLM missed the Alternatives sentence describing “downgrad[ing] to
1.3.0 and used the app for a while without issues... I’m downgrading okhttp in this branch now, and I’ll close this issue if I’m
ever able to reproduce it on 1.3.x.23 ”, the generator had less evidence to recover that workaround in the final Alternatives
summary. Similarly, when the LLM missed Need sentences such as “Support property based MeterFilters24 ” and the
corresponding design recommendation about allowing application developers to configure summary statistics through
filters, the generated Need summary could not fully capture the motivation for the change. These observations suggest
that generation failures are not independent generation errors; rather, they are downstream effects of sentence-level
rationale identification.

5.5.5    Impact of the LLM on Argus’s Performance
 We evaluated the best-performing prompts with two additional models, GPT-5.2 and Gemini 3 Flash [46, 82], to assess
how Argus’s prompting and pipeline design perform beyond GPT-o4-mini.
     For rationale identification, we re-ran the best-performing prompting strategy, CI-RFS with voting across three runs,
on the evaluation set using all three models. Because the CI-RFS prompt was developed using GPT-o4-mini, this analysis
examines how the performance changes when applied to GPT-5.2 and Gemini 3 Flash.


21 Project: OKHttp;   Source: Issue #666; Commit: 4c86085
22 Project: OKHttp;   Source: Issue #666; Commit: 4c86085
23 Project: OKHttp; Source: Issue #666; Commit: 4c86085
24 Project: Spring-Boot; Source: Issue #11800; Commit: 8f23ee4


Manuscript submitted to ACM
Recovering Fine-Grained Code Change Rationale from Multiple Software Artifacts                                                       35

Table 13. Rationale identification results for three models (using the CI-RFS prompt, developed for GPT-o4-mini, and voting with
three prompt executions); RI = relative improvement of GPT-o4-mini compared to Gemini 3 Flash or GPT-5.2
                                               (a) Results by component and model

                    Component        Model              TP     FP     TN    FN      Precision    Recall       F2
                                     GPT-o4-mini        105     32   2138       5     76.6%          95.5%   91.0%
                    Goal             GPT-5.2            107     78   2092       3     57.8%          97.3%   85.6%
                                     Gemini 3 Flash     108    123   2047       2     46.8%          98.2%   80.5%
                                     GPT-o4-mini         51     79   2145       5     39.2%          91.1%   72.0%
                    Need             GPT-5.2             52    123   2101       4     29.7%          92.9%   65.2%
                                     Gemini 3 Flash      53    221   2003       3     19.3%          94.6%   53.2%
                                     GPT-o4-mini          8     44   2226       2     15.4%          80.0%   43.5%
                    Alternatives     GPT-5.2              5     23   2247       5     17.9%          50.0%   36.8%
                                     Gemini 3 Flash       6     58   2212       4     9.4%           60.0%   28.9%
                                     GPT-o4-mini        164    155   6509   12        51.4%          93.2%   80.2%
                    Overall          GPT-5.2            164    224   6440   12        42.3%          93.2%   75.1%
                                     Gemini 3 Flash     167    402   6262    9        29.4%          94.9%   65.6%
                                          (b) Relative Improvement (RI) between models

                                   Comparison         Component      Precision      Recall      F2
                                                          Goal          32.5%       -1.9%      6.3%
                                    GPT-o4-mini
                                                         Need           32.0%       -1.9%     10.5%
                                        vs
                                                      Alternatives     -13.9%       60.0%     18.3%
                                      GPT-5.2
                                                       Overall         21.6%        0.0%      6.8%
                                                          Goal        63.9%         -2.8%     13.1%
                                    GPT-o4-mini
                                                         Need         102.8%        -3.8%     35.4%
                                        vs
                                                      Alternatives    64.0%         33.3%     50.7%
                                   Gemini 3 Flash
                                                       Overall        75.2%         -1.8%     22.2%




   Table 13 shows the rationale identification results of different models with the prompts developed for GPT-o4-mini.
For the three models, Goal is consistently the easiest component to identify, followed by Need, while Alternatives
remains the most difficult one. All models achieve high recall for Goal and Need, indicating that rationale sentences
for these components are broadly detectable across LLMs. Interestingly, overall, GPT-o4-mini outperforms GPT-5.2 by
6.8% and Gemini 3 Flash by 22.2% relative improvement on F2 Score (see Table 13b). Although their recall remains very
similar for Goal and Need, the main difference in performance arises from precision. Component-wise, all the instances
except for Alternatives, where GPT-5.2’s precision is 13% higher than GPT-o4-mini, GPT-o4-mini achieves at least 32%
higher precision than other models. Notably, for Need, GPT-o4-mini shows a 102% higher precision boost compared to
Gemini 3 Flash. This result shows that prompt development on a relatively lightweight model like GPT-o4-mini can help
achieve higher performance compared to a more powerful model like GPT-5.2 and Gemini 3 Flash.
   One possible explanation for these results is that the rationale identification task rewards careful rule-following
more than general reasoning ability. Rationale identification requires interpretation, but the model must still follow the
annotation rules and avoid inferring rationale when the evidence is not explicit. A stronger reasoning model such as
GPT-5.2 may sometimes over-interpret contextual or implementation-related sentences as implicit rationale, which
can increase false positives. In contrast, GPT-o4-mini may have benefited more from the reasoning-based few-shot
prompt because it followed the provided examples and decision boundaries more conservatively. This can explain why
                                                                                                             Manuscript submitted to ACM
36                                Mehedi Sun, Antu Saha, Nadeeshan De Silva, Antonio Mastropaolo, and Oscar Chaparro

Table 14. Rationale identification performance of different prompts executed on different models. CI-RFS is the prompt developed for
GPT-o4-mini, while CI-RFS-G3F and CI-RFS-G5.2 are the prompts developed for Gemini 3 Flash and GPT-5.2, respectively
           Component          Model            Prompt        TP     FP     TN     FN    Precision    Recall    F2 Score
                                               CI-RFS        108   123    2047     2      46.8%       98.2%      80.5%
                              Gemini 3 Flash
                                               CI-RFS-G3F    109   117    2053     1      48.2%       99.1%      81.8%
                                               CI-RFS        107    78    2092     3      57.8%       97.3%      85.6%
                              GPT-5.2
           Goal                                CI-RFS-G5.2   106    47    2123     4      69.3%       96.4%      89.4%
                                               CI-RFS        105    32    2138     5      76.6%       95.5%      91.0%
                              GPT-o4-mini      CI-RFS-G5.2   99    19     2151    11      83.9%       90.0%      88.7%
                                               CI-RFS-G3F    101    23    2147     9      81.5%       91.8%      89.5%
                                               CI-RFS        53    221    2003    3       19.3%       94.6%      53.2%
                              Gemini 3 Flash
                                               CI-RFS-G3F    51    184    2040    5       21.7%       91.1%      55.6%
                                               CI-RFS        52    123    2101    4       29.7%       92.9%      65.2%
                              GPT-5.2
           Need                                CI-RFS-G5.2   50     86    2138    6       36.8%       89.3%      69.4%
                                               CI-RFS        51     79    2145    5       39.2%       91.1%      72.0%
                              GPT-o4-mini      CI-RFS-G5.2   46     64    2160    10      41.8%       82.1%      68.9%
                                               CI-RFS-G3F    47     69    2155    9       40.5%       83.9%      69.1%
                                               CI-RFS         6     58    2212     4       9.4%       60.0%      28.9%
                              Gemini 3 Flash
                                               CI-RFS-G3F     6     38    2232     4      13.6%       60.0%      35.7%
                                               CI-RFS         5     23    2247     5      17.9%       50.0%      36.8%
                              GPT-5.2
           Alternatives                        CI-RFS-G5.2    5     13    2257     5      27.8%       50.0%      43.1%
                                               CI-RFS         8     44    2226     2      15.4%       80.0%      43.5%
                              GPT-o4-mini      CI-RFS-G5.2    7     21    2249     3      25.0%       70.0%      51.5%
                                               CI-RFS-G3F     8     30    2240     2      21.1%       80.0%      51.3%
                                               CI-RFS        167   402    6262     9      29.4%       94.9%      65.6%
                              Gemini 3 Flash
                                               CI-RFS-G3F    166   339    6325    10      32.9%       94.3%      68.7%
                                               CI-RFS        164   224    6440    12      42.3%       93.2%      75.1%
                              GPT-5.2
           Overall                             CI-RFS-G5.2   161   146    6518    15      52.4%       91.5%      79.6%
                                               CI-RFS        164   155    6509    12      51.4%       93.2%      80.2%
                              GPT-o4-mini      CI-RFS-G5.2   152   104    6560    24      59.4%       86.4%      79.2%
                                               CI-RFS-G3F    156   122    6542    20      56.1%       88.6%      79.4%



GPT-o4-mini achieved higher precision and F2-score even though GPT-5.2 and Gemini 3 Flash are generally considered
stronger reasoning models.
     To assess whether model-specific prompt adaptation affects performance, we adapted the CI-RFS prompt for the
other two models, which resulted in CI-RFS-G5.2 for GPT-5.2 and CI-RFS-G3F for Gemini 3 Flash. Across the three
versions, we retained the rationale taxonomy, target commit diff, artifact sentences, output format, and two few-shot
exemplar commits. For GPT-5.2, following OpenAI’s Prompt Optimizer guidelines [85], we reorganized the instructions
into explicit annotation constraints, exclusion rules, and stricter output requirements, while emphasizing conservative
labeling and grounding predictions in the commit diff. For Gemini 3 Flash, following Gemini’s Prompting Strategies
guidelines [43], we separated contextual analysis, relevance filtering, and multi-labeling into an explicit execution logic
section. All three prompt versions are available in our replication package [14].
     In Table 14, we report the component identification results obtained by executing each model-specific prompt on all
three models. To evaluate the benefit of model-specific prompting, we compared each tailored prompt with the CI-RFS
prompt (developed for GPT-o4-mini). All comparisons were performed on GPT-o4-mini, which is the model used in
Argus. The table reveals that the performance of each model in component identification increased consistently in
F2 score. Every model performs best on their own prompt compared to the prompt developed for GPT-o4-mini. For
Manuscript submitted to ACM
Recovering Fine-Grained Code Change Rationale from Multiple Software Artifacts                                           37


GPT-o4-mini, its performance decreased when it was evaluated with CI-RFS-G3F and CI-RFS-G5.2. We analyzed the
source of this boost, and we found that when prompts are adapted for each model, their true positives remained similar
but their false positives were reduced significantly. For example, when the GPT-5.2 model was executed with the CI-RFS
prompt (developed for GPT-o4-mini) the overall FPs were 224, but when the same model was run with the CI-RFS-G5.2
prompt (developed for GPT-5.2) the overall FPs decreased to 146. Similarly, when the Gemini 3 Flash model was executed
with CI-RFS, the FPs were 402, but with the CI-RFS-G3F prompt, the model produced 339 FPs overall.
    Across prompts, the true positives remained relatively stable, while the false positives decreased substantially. This
suggests that model-specific prompt development mainly helped each model become more selective about assigning
positive labels. In other words, the model-specific prompts did not help the models identify many new rationale
sentences; instead, they helped reduce over-identification. This also explains the slight recall drops in some cases:
stricter prompts remove false positives, but may also filter out a small number of true positives.
    For rationale generation, we applied the Argus’s generation prompt, CG-FS, to the three models and manually
evaluated the generated summaries using the same two dimensions described earlier: information coverage (IC) and
extra information (EI). We executed the prompt on identified rationale sentences from the associated artifacts to assess
the impact of the model on rationale generation. Table 15 reports the component-wise average ratings. The three models
show broadly similar behavior across components. For Goal, all three models produce strong summaries with very
similar IC scores. For Need, the models again behave similarly, recovering most of the ground truth information. In
both Goal and Need components, GPT-5.2 shows a slightly higher IC score, followed by Gemini 3 Flash. For Alternatives,
all three models obtain identical average scores. Overall, all three models show good information coverage (3.8 - 3.9)
which means they are able to recover most of the information from ground truth data. However, the Gemini 3 Flash
model included little extra information on Goal, GPT-o4-mini model presented little extra information on the Need
component. Taken together, these results suggest that rationale generation quality is relatively stable across the tested
models, with no major shifts in behavior compared to the performance differences observed for rationale identification.
    It is worth mentioning that two annotators independently rated the generated rationale components, obtaining
substantial to near-perfect overall inter-rater agreement across models. Specifically, we obtained a Cohen’s 𝜅 of 0.98,
0.91, and 0.91 for GPT-o4-mini, GPT-5.2, and Gemini 3 Flash, respectively.
    Overall, the results are broadly consistent across models. For rationale identification, all three models exhibit the
same qualitative trend: Goal is easiest to identify, followed by Need, while Alternatives remains the most difficult, but
GPT-o4-mini is clearly more precise and therefore more accurate overall. For rationale generation, by contrast, the three
models produce broadly similar ratings across all components, suggesting that summary generation is more stable
across models than sentence-level rationale identification. These results suggest that Argus’s overall feasibility does
not depend on a single LLM, although the choice of model affects rationale identification accuracy, with GPT-o4-mini
providing the best results among the tested models. Among the evaluated models, GPT-o4-mini achieves the best overall
performance while also being the smallest model, making it well suited for future real-world deployments of Argus.

6    Evaluating Argus’s Perceived Usefulness

We conducted a user study to understand whether Java programmers perceive Argus’s generated rationale summaries
as useful and effort-saving when understanding unfamiliar code changes. We also sought feedback on the software engi-
neering tasks that could benefit from generated rationale and on the features and integration mechanisms programmers
would like to see in a production version of Argus.

                                                                                                 Manuscript submitted to ACM
38                                Mehedi Sun, Antu Saha, Nadeeshan De Silva, Antonio Mastropaolo, and Oscar Chaparro

                                    Table 15. Rationale generation results obtained by each model
                                                 (a) Results by component and model

                                                                Information           Extra
                              Component           Model                                              F2
                                                                Coverage (IC)    Information (EI)
                                               GPT-o4-mini           4.5               3.7           4.3
                                 Goal            GPT-5.2             4.6               3.5           4.4
                                              Gemini 3 Flash         4.6               3.9           4.4
                                               GPT-o4-mini           3.5               3.2           3.4
                                 Need            GPT-5.2             3.6               3.0           3.5
                                              Gemini 3 Flash         3.5               3.0           3.4
                                               GPT-o4-mini           2.1               1.5           2.0
                              Alternatives       GPT-5.2             2.1               1.5           2.0
                                              Gemini 3 Flash         2.1               1.5           2.0
                                               GPT-o4-mini           3.8               3.2           3.7
                                Overall          GPT-5.2             3.9               3.1           3.7
                                              Gemini 3 Flash         3.9               3.3           3.7

                                             (b) Relative Improvement (RI) between models

                                                               Information           Extra
                          Comparison          Component                                              F2
                                                               Coverage (IC)    Information (EI)
                                                   Goal            -2.2%             5.1%           -0.5%
                              GPT-o4-mini
                                                  Need             -5.2%             7.1%           -2.6%
                                  vs
                                               Alternatives         0.0%             0.0%            0.0%
                                GPT-5.2
                                                Overall            -3.1%             5.6%           -1.1%
                                                   Goal            -1.3%             -4.6%          -2.1%
                           GPT-o4-mini
                                                  Need             -2.0%              5.0%          -0.5%
                               vs
                                               Alternatives         0.0%              0.0%           0.0%
                          Gemini 3 Flash
                                                Overall            -1.6%             -1.2%          -1.5%



     We focus on a scenario in which developers need to understand code changes that are unfamiliar to them. Such
situations commonly arise during maintenance, onboarding, and debugging, where developers must determine why
a change was made despite having little prior knowledge of the change itself. This scenario is particularly relevant
because recovering the rationale behind unfamiliar changes is one of the primary goals of Argus.
     With this in mind, our study addresses the following research questions (RQs):
 RQ7 : How useful and effort-saving do Java programmers perceive Argus’s generated rationale summaries to be?
 RQ8 : What tasks, features, and integration opportunities do Java programmers envision for Argus?
     RQ7 investigates whether programmers perceive the generated rationale summaries as helpful for understanding
unfamiliar code changes and reducing the effort required to recover the code change rationale. RQ8 identifies how
generated rationale summaries may fit into existing development workflows and informs future improvements to Argus.
6.1    Study Design
Our study consisted of three phases. First, participants completed a short demographic questionnaire. Second, they
evaluated rationale summaries generated by Argus for three commits from a single software project. Finally, they
provided feedback regarding use cases, desired features, and workflow integration opportunities for Argus. The study
was administered as an online survey through Qualtrics [89] and was designed to take approximately 30 minutes.
Manuscript submitted to ACM
Recovering Fine-Grained Code Change Rationale from Multiple Software Artifacts                                            39

                                   Table 16. Distribution of the 18 commits used in the study
                                  Dimension               Category             #Commits (%)
                                                          JUnit4                  6 (33.3%)
                                                          Spring Boot             3 (16.7%)
                                  Project                 Dubbo                   3 (16.7%)
                                                          OkHttp                  3 (16.7%)
                                                          Retrofit                3 (16.7%)
                                                          1 component             2 (11.1%)
                                  Rationale components    2 components            10 (55.6%)
                                                          3 components            6 (33.3%)
                                                          Short (≤ 15 LOC)        13 (72.2%)
                                  Code diff size
                                                          Long (> 15 LOC)         5 (27.8%)




   The remainder of this subsection describes each phase in detail. Our replication package [14] provides the study
questionnaire, commits, and additional materials needed to replicate and validate the study. The study protocol, including
participant recruitment procedures, questionnaires, and evaluation tasks, was approved by the Institutional Review
Board (IRB) of our university.

6.1.1   Participant Recruitment
 We recruited Java programmers with diverse software development backgrounds and experience levels. Participants
were invited through our professional network via email and direct messages. We specifically sought individuals with
Java development experience because the study required participants to inspect and reason about Java code changes.
   We contacted 26 programmers, of whom 18 responded, and 15 completed the study. Following data validation, three
participants were excluded from the analysis, resulting in a final set of 12 participants (see Section 6.2 for details). No
compensation was provided to participants.

6.1.2   Commit Selection Process
 We selected 18 commits from the evaluation dataset described in Section 5.1. These commits were organized into six
groups of three commits each. Each group contained commits from a single project. Each participant evaluated one
group consisting of three commits from a single project. This allowed participants to remain within a consistent project
context throughout the study and reduced context switching between different projects.
   The six groups collectively covered all five studied projects: Spring Boot [9], Dubbo [1], OkHttp [5], Retrofit [6],
and JUnit4 [4]. Three commits were selected from each project, with an additional three commits selected from JUnit4,
resulting in a total of 18 commits. Groups were assigned to participants so that each commit group, hence each commit,
was evaluated by multiple (two to three) participants whenever possible.
   We selected three commits per participant to keep study duration within approximately 30 minutes while allowing
exposure to multiple rationale summaries. The selected commits were chosen to provide diversity in code diff size
and coverage of rationale components. As shown in Table 16, the final set contains commits with one, two, and three
generated rationale components, as well as short and long code diffs. We used the rationale summaries produced by
Argus during the evaluation phase, ensuring that participants assessed the same type of output analyzed in RQ6 .

6.1.3   Study Procedure
 Figure 6 provides an overview of the study procedure followed by the participants.
                                                                                                  Manuscript submitted to ACM
40                                Mehedi Sun, Antu Saha, Nadeeshan De Silva, Antonio Mastropaolo, and Oscar Chaparro


                                                          Phase 2:                                Phase 3:
                                                       Commit Evaluation                  Post-Evaluation Feedback

                    Phase 1:
                                                                                              Software Engineering
            Participant Background                    Demonstration Example
                                                                                                  Tasks Support


          Demographics and Experience              Evaluation of 3 commits from a
                                                                                           Tool Features Expectation
                Questionnaire                                  project


                                                      Assessment of Usefulness                  Tool Integration



                                           Fig. 6. Overview of the user study procedure



     In the first phase, participants completed a background questionnaire capturing their programming experience, Java
development experience, software development context (e.g., proprietary or open source), application domains, and
primary software engineering role (e.g., programmer, tester, or software architect).
     In the evaluation phase, participants were first presented with definitions of code change rationale and the three
rationale components that Argus generates: Goal, Need, and Alternatives. They were also provided with a complete
example consisting of a commit message, code diff, and generated rationale summaries to familiarize them with the
study format and the types of rationale they would evaluate.
     Participants then evaluated the three commits assigned to them. For each commit, they were presented with the
original commit message, the corresponding code diff, and the rationale summaries generated by Argus. Participants
were instructed to inspect this information and then answer four questions about the usefulness of the rationale
summaries. Two questions asked participants to rate, using 5-point Likert scales, the extent to which:
(1) the generated rationale components helped them understand the code change rationale; and
(2) the generated rationale components could save effort when understanding why the code change was made.
The remaining two questions asked the participants to provide open-ended explanations for their ratings.
     Effort saving was defined as the participant’s perceived reduction in effort required to understand why the change
was made when using the generated rationale summaries, compared to relying on the commit message and code
diff alone. Participants were explicitly instructed to judge whether summaries would reduce the time and cognitive
effort required to understand the rationale behind the code change. Consequently, the effort-saving ratings reflect
participants’ perceptions of potential effort reduction rather than direct measurements of task performance. We discuss
the implications of this design choice and the associated threats to validity in Section 7.
     After evaluating all three commits, participants completed a post-study questionnaire selecting software engineering
tasks that could benefit from generated rationale summaries from a predefined list, and identifying desired features for
Argus and preferred integration mechanisms via open-ended responses.

6.2     Results and Analysis
We report participants’ demographics, their perceptions of the usefulness and effort-saving value of Argus’s generated
rationale summaries, and their feedback regarding potential applications, features, and integration opportunities.

6.2.1    Participant Exclusions
 Of the 15 participants who completed the study, three responses were excluded prior to analysis. Two participants
Manuscript submitted to ACM
Recovering Fine-Grained Code Change Rationale from Multiple Software Artifacts                                                 41

Table 17. Participants’ ratings of the usefulness and effort-saving value of the generated rationale summaries (N = 35 ratings; 12
participants evaluated 2–3 commits each)
                                   Rating                        Usefulness     Effort saving
                                   Strongly disagree               1 (2.9%)        2 (5.7%)
                                   Somewhat disagree               3 (8.6%)        3 (8.6%)
                                   Neither agree nor disagree      2 (5.7%)        0 (0.0%)
                                   Somewhat agree                 10 (28.6%)      8 (22.9%)
                                   Strongly agree                 19 (54.3%)      22 (62.9%)



completed the study in under 10 minutes, substantially shorter than the expected completion time of approximately 30
minutes, and provided extremely brief open-ended responses with little detail, suggesting limited engagement with the
evaluation tasks. One additional response was excluded because its open-ended answers appeared to be generated by a
generative AI model rather than reflecting the participant’s own assessment. As such, the response contained generic
explanations repeated across commits and failed to reference any commit-specific details. The final analysis therefore
includes commit evaluations from 12 participants.

6.2.2   Demographics
 The 12 participants included programmers with diverse levels of software development experience. Seven participants
reported 1–4 years of programming experience, four reported 5–9 years, and one reported 10–19 years. Java experience
followed a similar distribution, with seven participants reporting 1–4 years of Java experience and two reporting 5–9
years. Regarding experience in software development and maintenance in industry, nine participants reported prior
experience, with seven having 1–4 years of experience and two with less than 1 year.
   Participants also reported experience developing software in a variety of domains, including education and research
(5 participants), healthcare (4), productivity software (2), fiduciary/banking systems (1), and rental services (2). Seven
participants were affiliated with academic or research institutions, and five worked in industry. Overall, these demo-
graphics suggest that the study captured perspectives from programmers with varying levels of experience, application
domains, organizational contexts, and software engineering responsibilities.

6.2.3   RQ7 : Perceived Usefulness and Effort-Saving of Argus’s Generated Rationale Summaries
 Table 17 summarizes participants’ ratings of perceived usefulness and effort saving. The 12 participants provided 35
valid commit evaluations, resulting in 35 usefulness ratings and 35 effort-saving ratings. One additional evaluation
was excluded from the analysis due to a survey configuration error that displayed rationale summaries for a different
commit than the one being evaluated.
   For usefulness, 29 of the 35 ratings (82.9%) indicated that participants perceived the generated rationale summaries
as helpful to understand the rationale behind the code change. Effort-saving ratings followed a similar pattern: 30
of 35 ratings (85.7%) indicated agreement that the generated rationale summaries could reduce the effort required to
understand why the change was made.
   Our analysis of open-ended responses provides supporting evidence for these results:

   Understanding the Motivation Behind a Change. Participants reported that the rationale summaries were most valu-
able when they provided context that was not immediately apparent from the commit message or code diff, particularly
information explaining the Need behind a change. For example, P5 noted that the generated rationale helped them
understand “not just the changes made, but also the goal behind the changes and why the developers need the improvement
in the code.” Similarly, P10 explained that “The commit message alone only told me that this change was trying to ‘restore’
                                                                                                       Manuscript submitted to ACM
42                              Mehedi Sun, Antu Saha, Nadeeshan De Silva, Antonio Mastropaolo, and Oscar Chaparro

                         Table 18. Software engineering tasks for which participants find rationales useful
                         Task                                               #Participants     Proportion
                         Understanding design/implementation/features              9             75.0%
                         Code reviews                                              9             75.0%
                         Documentation (design/implementation)                     9             75.0%
                         Teaching / onboarding                                     8             66.7%
                         Diagnosing / locating / correcting bugs                   6             50.0%
                         Refactoring                                               5             41.7%
                         Designing test cases                                      5             41.7%
                         Reproducing bugs                                          5             41.7%
                         Reusing code for new functionality                        5             41.7%



something,” whereas the rationale summary “gave me insight into the need for this change and the context surrounding
the problem.”

     Reducing the Effort Needed to Recover Rationale. Participants also perceived the rationale summaries as effort-saving
because they believed the summaries reduced the need to manually inspect code and infer developer intent. P2 explained
that the “natural language description helps to save time rather than interpret the code change,” while P3 noted that the
rationale “could save multiple minutes of having to read through the code to determine the goal and need.” In reference to
commit a602542 from project Retrofit [6], which restored fine-grained logging of HTTP response bodies by splitting
large responses into smaller chunks before logging them, P11 provided a concrete example, explaining that “Without
the answer, if I really had to, I would need to spend more time to understand why chunking is needed.”.

     Dependence on Rationale Quality. Participants also identified situations where the generated rationale was less useful.
In particular, summaries were perceived as less helpful when they closely resembled the commit message, lacked
specificity, or did not align with the code change. For example, P3 noted that one rationale “just summarized the commit
message and code comments, but included less detail,” while P12 observed that “the rationale did not match the commit.”,
which happened because the LLM misclassified sentences as rationale. These responses suggest that participants’
perceptions of usefulness depend on the quality and grounding of the generated rationale.
     Overall, participants generally perceived Argus’s rationale summaries as useful for understanding unfamiliar code
changes and believed they could reduce the effort required to recover and understand code change rationale.

6.2.4    RQ8 : Tasks, Features, and Integration Opportunities for Argus


     Tasks Supported by Generated Rationales. Table 18 summarizes the software engineering tasks participants believed
could benefit from generated rationale summaries. The most frequently selected tasks were understanding code design
and implementation, code review, and documentation, each selected by nine participants (75%). Teaching and onboarding
developers was selected by eight participants (66.7%).
     Participants frequently reported that rationale summaries helped them understand implementation decisions. For
example, P11 explained: “The statement in GOAL is more informative and helps me understand better.” Several participants
also connected rationale to debugging and maintenance activities. For example, P10 stated that “Rationales would be partic-
ularly helpful in cases where there’s a need to go back and understand what developers were thinking when making a change.”
Such situations frequently occur during debugging, regression investigation, and maintenance tasks, where developers
must reason about the intent behind earlier modifications before devising a solution and making further changes.
Manuscript submitted to ACM
Recovering Fine-Grained Code Change Rationale from Multiple Software Artifacts                                              43


    These responses suggest that participants view generated rationale summaries as potentially useful for supporting un-
derstanding of individual code changes, but also as a resource supporting a broad range of maintenance, documentation,
review, and onboarding activities.

    Argus Features and Integration Opportunities. The feature requested most frequently was traceability. Three partici-
pants wanted to know where the generated rationale originated. For example, P3 stated that “the tool should cite where
its information comes from to mitigate hallucinations,” while P9 suggested that rationale summaries should be “traceable
(linked to the artifact).”
    This request aligns with Argus’s architecture. Argus’s rationale identification module already records which artifact
sentences were classified as Goal, Need, or Alternatives and retains links to their original artifacts. Consequently, a user-
facing implementation of Argus could expose these traceability links, allowing developers to inspect the underlying
evidence supporting each generated rationale summary.
    Participants also requested support for interactive exploration of rationale. For example, P3 suggested allowing
developers to ask follow-up questions about generated rationales. This feedback suggests that participants view rationale
summaries not only as static documentation but also as a starting point for further exploration of design decisions
and implementation trade-offs. Others requested rationale search capabilities (P10: “I would also want to be able to
search through code rationales for my project, either literally or semantically.”), support for impact analysis (P1: “[The
tool should] notify if the modifications have a side effect on the other parts of the project”), and code quality insights
such as policy checking (P7: “A comprehensive evaluation whether the changed code conforms with all the code design
principles”) or code smell detection (P6: “I think a feature that can detect code smells will help a lot”).
    Integration preferences largely centered on existing development environments. Four participants preferred IDE
integration, four participants preferred integration into pull request or code review platforms, two participants suggested
integration into version control systems, and two participants suggested integrating the tool as a web extension. These
responses indicate that developers would prefer rationale support to be embedded within tools they already use rather
than exposed through standalone applications.


      RQ7 and RQ8 Findings: Participants generally perceived Argus’s generated rationale summaries as useful
      and effort-saving for understanding unfamiliar code changes. They identified code understanding, code review,
      documentation, and onboarding as the primary tasks that could benefit from generated rationale. Participants
      most frequently requested traceability support linking rationale summaries back to their source artifacts and
      expressed a preference for integrating Argus into existing development environments such as IDEs, code review
      systems, and version control platforms.


7     Threats to Validity

We discuss the factors that affect the validity of our findings.

7.1     Construct Validity

We defined the rationale components based on the prior rationale model [98] and refined them through our qualitative
study. This resulted in operational definitions for Goal, Need, and Alternatives, which introduced validity threat concerns
for the rationale component taxonomy. To reduce ambiguity, annotators used a shared codebook with definitions,
examples, and decision rules, which was iteratively refined during annotation. We followed a multi-coder methodology
                                                                                                    Manuscript submitted to ACM
44                              Mehedi Sun, Antu Saha, Nadeeshan De Silva, Antonio Mastropaolo, and Oscar Chaparro


involving iterative coding sessions, discussion, and consensus to resolve disagreements. Across all annotation tasks, we
observed high agreement according to Cohen’s 𝜅, providing evidence for the quality of the process and resulting data.
     Another threat concern of our study is the creation of ground truth sentence labels. Identifying whether an artifact
sentence expresses rationale is subjective, especially when rationale is implicit or spread across multiple artifacts. We
mitigated this threat through independent annotation, multiple annotation iterations, reconciliation meetings, and
consensus-based resolution of disagreements. We also measured inter-rater agreement to assess the reliability of the
labels, obtaining high agreement results.
     A third threat concerns the ground truth rationale summaries used to evaluate generation. These summaries could
be incomplete, overly interpretive, or biased by the annotators’ understanding of the change. To mitigate this, one
annotator synthesized the component summaries from the commit diff, commit message, and labeled artifact sentences,
and a second annotator reviewed them for completeness, correctness, and accuracy with respect to the available artifacts.
Disagreements were resolved through discussion until consensus was reached.
     The process and metrics we used to evaluate rationale classification and generation also pose threats to construct
validity. For rationale identification, we used standard classification metrics because the task is formulated as multi-label
classification. We used F2 because missing rationale information is more harmful for our rationale generation task
than including some additional candidate sentences. For rationale generation, automatic text similarity metrics alone
would not capture whether a summary preserved the correct rationale meaning. Therefore, we used human ratings of
information coverage and extra information, with explicit scoring criteria, independent ratings, and reconciliation to
reduce evaluator bias. Overall, we spent 15 person-hours manually evaluating rationale summaries across several stages
of the study, including prompt development, Argus evaluation, and analysis with multiple models. We also spent an
additional 8 person-hours reconciling cases in which annotators disagreed on the evaluated rationales.
     Another threat concerns how we measured usefulness and effort saving in the user study. Since the study measured
participants’ perceptions rather than task performance, these results should be interpreted as evidence of perceived
usefulness and perceived effort savings, rather than direct evidence that Argus improves comprehension or reduces
actual task completion time. Evaluating comprehension accuracy, task performance, and time savings in controlled
tasks remains future work.

7.2    Internal Validity

The selection of commits and associated artifacts poses a threat to internal validity. To mitigate this, we ensured that
the sampled commits used for analysis were diverse. The heuristic-based approach used to retrieve rationale artifacts
associated to each commit could influence the results. We tried to mitigate this threat by combining multiple retrieval
strategies, including explicit-reference matching, GitHub API queries, and cross-artifact searches. Two annotators
independently assessed the relevance of the retrieved issues and pull requests, resolved disagreements through discussion,
and excluded irrelevant artifacts from the analysis. Nevertheless, some relevant artifacts may have remained unidentified.
     Argus prompt development followed an iterative, data-driven methodology: failed cases were systematically an-
alyzed, and prompts were refined based on evaluation metrics. To control for LLM inconsistency, we executed the
developed prompts multiple times and found consistent results.
     Regarding the user study, novelty bias may have influenced participants’ ratings, as participants could react positively
to seeing an automatically generated rationale summary. We did not directly measure this effect, so the perceived
usefulness results should be interpreted with caution. Still, participants’ open-ended explanations often pointed to

Manuscript submitted to ACM
Recovering Fine-Grained Code Change Rationale from Multiple Software Artifacts                                            45


concrete reasons for their ratings, such as whether the summaries added context, clarified the Need, or aligned with the
code change, which helps contextualize their ratings beyond the numeric responses.
    A further threat is that participants evaluated only the condition containing Argus’s generated rationale summaries.
We did not include a control condition in which participants assessed the same commits using only the commit message
and code diff. Because participants only reported perceived benefits, we cannot conclude that the summaries improved
actual comprehension or reduced effort. Establishing these effects would require a controlled comparison with and
without rationale summaries.
    Another threat is the choice of the LLM, but we executed an experiment to assess the effect of the LLM using two
additional recent LLMs, GPT-5.2 and Gemini 3 Flash. The results showed that model choice affects rationale identification
performance, especially precision, but the same overall trend held across models: Goal was the easiest component to
identify, followed by Need, while Alternatives remained the most difficult. For rationale generation, the models produced
broadly similar ratings across components.

7.3    External Validity
Our findings may not fully generalize beyond the selected Java projects, commits, artifact types, LLMs, and participants.
We included projects from different domains, commits of varying sizes and complexities, multiple artifact types, and
participants with diverse development backgrounds. The study remains limited to five open source Java projects and
three LLMs, so the results may differ for other programming languages, software ecosystems, artifact sources, or models.
    The user study findings are also limited by the small convenience sample of 12 participants. Individuals accessible
to the researchers or interested in code rationale and LLM-based tools may have been more likely to participate,
potentially making the sample more receptive to the proposed approach. In addition, seven participants were affiliated
with academic or research institutions, while five worked in industry. Although they represented different experience
levels, domains, and development roles, the sample may not reflect the broader population of professional developers.
We therefore interpret the user study results as exploratory evidence of perceived usefulness rather than broadly
generalizable findings.

8     Related Work
We discuss prior work on rationale modeling and management in software engineering, focusing on four complementary
areas: (i) rationale models and taxonomies, (ii) identification of rationale in software artifacts, (iii) approaches for
capturing and documenting rationale during development, and (iv) the role of rationale in commit message generation.

8.1    Design Rationale Models and Taxonomies
Software rationale captures the reasoning and justification underlying decisions made during software development
and evolution. Such decisions occur at different levels of abstraction, ranging from requirements and architectural
choices to the implementation and maintenance of individual code changes [40, 44, 104, 106, 110, 115]. These levels
form a continuum rather than strictly separate categories: a low-level code change may implement an architectural
decision, address a defect introduced by that decision, or implement a higher-level requirement. Our work focuses on
rationale associated with concrete code changes while recognizing that this rationale may be connected to higher-level
design and architectural decisions.
    Prior work has proposed several models for representing rationale and decision-making [19, 25, 50, 59, 62, 77, 88, 105].
IBIS [59], for example, organizes rationale around issues, positions, and supporting or opposing arguments. QOC [77]
represents the questions being addressed, the options considered, and the criteria used to compare those options.
                                                                                                  Manuscript submitted to ACM
46                             Mehedi Sun, Antu Saha, Nadeeshan De Silva, Antonio Mastropaolo, and Oscar Chaparro


Potts and Bruns [88] modeled rationale through design issues, alternatives, and justifications, while Lee et al. [62]
proposed the Decision Representation Language, which connects issues, alternatives, goals, claims, and supporting or
opposing relationships in a structured decision graph. RATSpeak [25] extended this representation with requirements,
assumptions, and a richer argument ontology. Tang et al. [105] developed an empirical taxonomy of architectural
rationale containing categories such as assumptions, constraints, trade-offs, costs, and benefits. These models primarily
support the representation of rationale surrounding design and architectural decisions.
     More recent work has adapted rationale models to information contained in development artifacts [16, 22, 36, 55, 69,
117]. Kleebaum et al. [55], for example, represented rationale from issue trackers and version control systems as decision
problems, alternatives, decisions, and pro/con arguments connected in a knowledge graph. DRMiner [117] modeled
solutions discussed in issue logs together with their supporting arguments. Dhaouadi et al. [36] proposed a decision
rationale graph that represents decisions, their rationale, and supporting facts extracted from commit messages.
     Our work adopts the taxonomy of Safwan et al. [16, 98] because it specifically models the fine-grained information
developers seek when understanding code changes. The taxonomy decomposes code change rationale into 15 compo-
nents, including a change’s Goal, Need, Benefits, Side Effects, and Alternatives. Safwan et al. developed the taxonomy
from developers’ reported information needs; however, they did not examine how these components are actually
documented and distributed across commit-related artifacts. We build on their taxonomy by studying whether and
where its components appear across multiple software artifact types and by supporting the automated identification
and synthesis of the three most frequently documented components: Goal, Need, and Alternatives.

8.2    Rationale Identification in Software Artifacts

Rationale is often not recorded consistently in formal models or dedicated decision documents [18, 25]. Instead, it is
expressed informally and inconsistently across artifacts such as commit messages, issue discussions, code comments,
emails, meeting notes, chat messages, and wikis [18, 75, 103]. Recovering rationale therefore requires developers to
search, navigate, and connect fragments distributed across heterogeneous sources. Empirical studies confirm that
these artifacts contain relevant decision information. Bi et al. [24], for example, found that architectural rationale was
frequently communicated in the mailing lists of two open source projects. Soria et al. [103] similarly found that software
decisions and their underlying reasoning were discussed during meetings but were only partially preserved in meeting
documentation.
     Prior studies have investigated automated and semi-automated methods for identifying rationale from individual
artifact types [17, 35, 64, 75, 90, 95, 96, 101, 109]. TREx [75] used rule-based natural-language processing to identify
ontology-based rationale elements in emails, meeting notes, and wikis. Alkadhi et al. [17] applied Naïve Bayes and SVM
classifiers to development-team chat messages to identify rationale elements such as issues, alternatives, arguments,
and decisions. Rogers et al. [96] combined NLP and machine learning techniques to classify rationale elements in
Chrome bug reports. Sharma et al. [101] developed heuristics based on textual patterns, temporal proximity, author
roles, message structure, and decision-related expressions to identify rationale in email archives. Rani et al. [90] and
Pascarella et al. [86] used machine learning classifiers to identify rationale-oriented code comments. More recently,
Dhaouadi et al. [35] combined ML/DL classification with an LLM-based extraction step to recover decision rationale
pairs from commit messages.
     These approaches demonstrate that rationale can be identified in diverse software artifacts, but they typically focus
on one artifact type or communication channel and use rationale schemas designed for the corresponding source or
task. To the best of our knowledge, no prior approach combines the following three capabilities: identifying fine-grained
Manuscript submitted to ACM
Recovering Fine-Grained Code Change Rationale from Multiple Software Artifacts                                            47


code change rationale components, jointly analyzing the multiple artifact types associated with a commit, and using
LLM-based cross-artifact reasoning for sentence-level identification and synthesis. Our approach examines six artifact
types associated with each commit: commit messages, issue reports, pull requests, code reviews, Javadocs, and code
comments, and identifies sentences expressing Goal, Need, and Alternatives in relation to the actual code change. This
formulation requires not only detecting rationale content, but also determining whether the information is relevant to
the target commit and which fine-grained component it expresses.

8.3   Rationale Capture, Documentation, and Synthesis

Because rationale is often incomplete, scattered, and weakly connected to the corresponding software elements, prior
work has proposed tools for capturing and organizing it during development [17, 20, 42, 53, 54, 57, 79–81]. PAKME [20],
for example, supports architectural decision making by organizing design options, patterns, and their associated
rationale. Decision Architect [80] allows architects to document architecture decisions and their rationale through
multiple modeling viewpoints. EAGLE [42] combines a repository of architectural knowledge with project-specific
discussion and user notification features. ACTIVE DOCUMENTATION [81] allows developers to document design
decisions as rules and rationale, then checks whether the implementation conforms to those rules.
  Reviews of rationale management tools have highlighted the burden of manually documenting and maintaining ratio-
nale [27]. Consequently, more recent approaches have explored semi-automated and automated recovery from existing
development artifacts [23, 28, 56, 67, 91, 108, 117, 118]. ADeX [23], for example, extracts architectural design decisions
from textual sources such as issue reports, meeting minutes, chats, and commits to support architectural knowledge
management. DRMiner [117] recovers design solutions and supporting arguments from Jira issue discussions. Zhou et
al. [118] used LLMs to generate architectural rationale by providing an architecture-related problem and its correspond-
ing decision as context. These approaches focus primarily on architecture or design-level decisions, whereas our work
focuses on rationale directly associated with concrete code changes and their surrounding implementation artifacts.
  The work most closely related to our rationale generation task includes the approaches of Rastkar et al. [91] and
Casillo et al. [28]. Rastkar et al. proposed a multi-document summarization technique that combines information from
commit messages, bug reports, tasks, user stories, and feature requests to generate a general explanation of why a
change was made. Their work demonstrates the value of synthesizing information across documents, but it does not
distinguish among fine-grained rationale components or first identify the sentences supporting each component.
  Casillo et al. [28] formulated rationale generation as a translation task from code changes to natural-language
rationale. They mined commits whose messages contained explicit rationale and fine-tuned a CodeT5+ model to
generate rationale from the corresponding code changes. This formulation learns a mapping from code differences to
rationale available in commit messages. However, rationale is frequently absent or incomplete in commit messages and
instead is recorded in issues, pull requests, reviews, or code documentation, as we found in our study. Our approach
therefore formulates the task as cross-artifact identification followed by synthesis: it first retrieves explicit rationale
evidence from the artifacts associated with a commit and then generates separate summaries for Goal, Need, and
Alternatives. This design preserves component distinctions and enables each generated summary to be traced to the
artifact sentences from which it was synthesized.
  Overall, prior work has supported rationale capture, recovery, or summarization, but generally produces architectural
decision representations, decision-rationale pairs, or a single general rationale summary. In contrast, our work generates
concise natural-language summaries for individual fine-grained code change rationale components by integrating
evidence identified across multiple heterogeneous artifacts.
                                                                                                  Manuscript submitted to ACM
48                            Mehedi Sun, Antu Saha, Nadeeshan De Silva, Antonio Mastropaolo, and Oscar Chaparro


8.4    Commit Message Generation with Code Change Rationale
Commit messages are an important form of code change documentation because they typically describe what changed
and may also explain why the change was needed [66, 108]. Earlier commit message generation approaches, including
CommitGen [48], NMT [76], PtrGNCMsg [72], NNGen [74], and ATOM [73], generated or retrieved messages primarily
from code diffs and structural code information. Their main objective was to summarize the implemented modification
rather than to recover the reasoning behind it.
     More recent approaches have attempted to include rationale information in generated commit messages [67, 78,
111, 112]. ERICommitter [112] uses in-context examples with informative commit messages to help an LLM infer why
information from a target code diff. COMET [78] uses the what/why labeling method introduced by Tian et al. [108] to
select informative training messages and generates commit messages from code changes and their surrounding code
context. OMG [67] prompts GPT-4 with a code diff and additional context, including issue reports, pull requests, class
and method summaries, and commit type, to generate rationale-aware commit messages.
     These approaches are related to our work because both seek to capture the motivation behind code changes. However,
their primary goal is different. Existing approaches generate a single commit message that summarizes what changed
and briefly explains why. In contrast, our approach recovers explicit rationale components from software development
artifacts. Specifically, we identify and summarize a change’s Goal, motivating Need, and the Alternatives solutions
considered. Unlike commit message generation, which produces a single summary, our pipeline first identifies the
artifact sentences supporting each rationale component and then generates a summary for each component, making
the generated rationale traceable to specific evidence in the artifacts.

9     Conclusions and Future Work
We analyzed 63 commits from five Java projects to examine how software artifacts capture code change rationale
components. We found evidence of seven rationale components, with Goal, Need, and Alternatives being the most
common. Our results show that rationale is unevenly distributed across artifacts: Commit Messages and Pull Requests
mainly document Goal, while Need is more often captured in Pull Requests and Issues. We also found that rationale
beyond Goal is often scattered across multiple artifacts, making it difficult for developers to reconstruct why a change
was made by inspecting a single artifact (e.g., a commit message). These findings highlight the need for automated
support to identify and synthesize rationale information from multiple development artifacts.
     To address this need, we developed Argus, an LLM-powered approach that identifies rationale sentences across
artifacts and generates concise summaries of a commit’s Goal, Need, and Alternatives. Our prompt development results
show that reasoning-based few-shot prompting improves rationale identification. In the evaluation on 50 commits,
Argus outperformed the prompting baseline overall and accurately identified Goal sentences, although performance
was lower for Need and Alternatives. This suggests that Goal is easier to detect because it is more explicit in artifacts,
whereas Need and Alternatives often require more contextual reasoning and are expressed in more varied ways.
     For rationale generation, Argus produced strong Goal summaries that closely matched the ground truth. However,
Need and Alternatives summaries were less reliable than Goal, mainly because the false positive sentences from the
identification step sometimes led the generator to produce components that were absent from the ground truth. This
finding suggests that improving the precision of rationale identification, especially for Need and Alternatives, is important
for improving rationale generation. Our cross-model analysis further shows that Argus generalizes across the evaluated
LLMs. While model choice affects rationale identification accuracy, all evaluated models produce similarly high-quality
rationale summaries when given the same identified rationale sentences.
Manuscript submitted to ACM
Recovering Fine-Grained Code Change Rationale from Multiple Software Artifacts                                                                     49


  Finally, our user study with 12 Java programmers showed that participants generally perceived Argus’s generated
rationale summaries as useful for understanding change rationale. Participants especially valued summaries that
explained the Need behind a change and provided context not obvious from the commit message or code diff alone.
They also indicated that generated rationales could support code reviews, documentation, teaching, debugging, and
understanding unfamiliar code. At the same time, participants highlighted the need for traceability, concise summaries,
and integration into development workflows such as IDEs, code review platforms, and version control systems.
  Future work should improve Argus in several directions. First, more diverse few-shot exemplars and decision
rules could help reduce false positives for Need and Alternatives. Second, future versions of Argus could support
interactive rationale exploration, where developers ask follow-up questions, provide missing rationale context, or
correct generated summaries. Third, future work should investigate personalized and task-specific rationale generation.
Different developers may need different levels of detail depending on their role, project familiarity, and task. Finally,
larger evaluations with more projects, programming languages, more professional developers, and real development
tasks (such as identifying tangled commits or debugging regressions) are needed to assess how Argus affects developers’
decision-making and productivity in practice.

References
 [1] 2025. Apache-Dubbo. https://dubbo.apache.org/.
 [2] 2025. Apache-Dubbo-Mailing-List. https://lists.apache.org/.
 [3] 2025. Comment Parser. https://pypi.org/project/comment-parser/.
 [4] 2025. JUnit4. https://junit.org/junit4/.
 [5] 2025. OkHttp. https://square.github.io/okhttp/.
 [6] 2025. Retrofit. https://square.github.io/retrofit/.
 [7] 2025. Retrofit. https://github.com/square/retrofit/pull/2715. Accessed: 2026-03-27.
 [8] 2025. Spacy Model: en_core_web_trf. https://spacy.io/models/en.
 [9] 2025. Spring-Boot. https://spring.io/projects/spring-boot.
[10] 2026. GitHub Discussions. https://github.com/features/discussions.
[11] 2026.             JUnit4 commit 44e7458b19d5cd1900a765a440c96e85b81d25fc.                        https://github.com/junit-team/junit4/commit/
     44e7458b19d5cd1900a765a440c96e85b81d25fc. Accessed: 2026-03-27.
[12] 2026.             JUnit4     commit      cec4a6baf600b8dee3d1318c242a67b56874288a.               https://github.com/junit-team/junit4/commit/
     cec4a6baf600b8dee3d1318c242a67b56874288a. Accessed: 2026-03-27.
[13] 2026.              OkHttp       commit      4c86085429edbeef0a383941936ee7b64cc3805e.                https://github.com/square/okhttp/commit/
     4c86085429edbeef0a383941936ee7b64cc3805e. Accessed: 2026-03-27.
[14] 2026. Online Replication Package. https://github.com/sea-lab-wm/finegrained-rationale.
[15] 2026.               Retrofit    commit      329a9fda122f29a40f49482d421f260bf148ee83.                https://github.com/square/retrofit/commit/
     329a9fda122f29a40f49482d421f260bf148ee83. Accessed: 2026-03-27.
[16] Khadijah Al Safwan, Mohammed Elarnaoty, and Francisco Servant. 2022. Developers’ need for the rationale of code commits: An in-breadth and
     in-depth study. Journal of Systems and Software 189 (2022), 111320.
[17] Rana Alkadhi, Teodora Lata, Emitza Guzmany, and Bernd Bruegge. 2017. Rationale in Development Chat Messages: An Exploratory Study. In
     Proceedings of the IEEE/ACM 14th International Conference on Mining Software Repositories (MSR’17). 436–446.
[18] Rana Alkadhi, Manuel Nonnenmacher, Emitza Guzman, and Bernd Bruegge. 2018. How do developers discuss rationale?. In Proceedings of the IEEE
     25th International Conference on Software Analysis, Evolution and Reengineering (SANER’18). 357–369.
[19] A.I. Anton. 1996. Goal-based requirements analysis. In Proceedings of the Second International Conference on Requirements Engineering. 136–144.
     https://doi.org/10.1109/ICRE.1996.491438
[20] Muhammad Ali Babar and Ian Gorton. 2007. A tool for managing software architecture knowledge. In Second Workshop on Sharing and Reusing
     Architectural Knowledge-Architecture, Rationale, and Design Intent (SHARK/ADI’07: ICSE Workshops 2007). IEEE, 11–11.
[21] Alberto Bacchelli and Christian Bird. 2013. Expectations, outcomes, and challenges of modern code review. In 2013 35th International Conference on
     Software Engineering (ICSE). IEEE, 712–721.
[22] Manoj Bhat, Klym Shumaiev, Andreas Biesdorf, Uwe Hohenstein, and Florian Matthes. 2017. Automatic Extraction of Design Decisions from Issue
     Management Systems: A Machine Learning Based Approach. In Software Architecture. Springer International Publishing, 138–154.

                                                                                                                       Manuscript submitted to ACM
50                                  Mehedi Sun, Antu Saha, Nadeeshan De Silva, Antonio Mastropaolo, and Oscar Chaparro


 [23] Manoj Bhat, Christof Tinnes, Klym Shumaiev, Andreas Biesdorf, Uwe Hohenstein, and Florian Matthes. 2019. ADeX: A Tool for Automatic Curation
      of Design Decision Knowledge for Architectural Decision Recommendations. In Proceedings of the IEEE International Conference on Software
      Architecture Companion (ICSA’19). 158–161.
 [24] Tingting Bi, Wei Ding, Peng Liang, and Antony Tang. 2021. Architecture information communication in two OSS projects: The why, who, when,
      and what. Journal of Systems and Software 181 (2021), 111035.
 [25] Janet E Burge and David C Brown. 2008. Software engineering using rationale. Journal of Systems and Software 81, 3 (2008), 395–413.
 [26] Janet E. Burge, John M. Carroll, Raymond McCall, and Ivan Mistrik. 2008. Rationale-Based Software Engineering. Springer Berlin Heidelberg.
 [27] Rafael Capilla, Anton Jansen, Antony Tang, Paris Avgeriou, and Muhammad Ali Babar. 2016. 10 years of software architecture knowledge
      management: Practice and future. Journal of Systems and Software 116 (2016), 191–205.
 [28] Francesco Casillo, Antonio Mastropaolo, Gabriele Bavota, Vincenzo Deufemia, and Carmine Gravino. 2025. Towards Generating the Rationale for
      Code Changes. In 2025 IEEE/ACM 33rd International Conference on Program Comprehension (ICPC). IEEE Computer Society, 327–338.
 [29] Oscar Chaparro, Jing Lu, Fiorella Zampetti, Laura Moreno, Massimiliano Di Penta, Andrian Marcus, Gabriele Bavota, and Vincent Ng. 2017.
      Detecting missing information in bug descriptions. In Proceedings of the 2017 11th joint meeting on foundations of software engineering. 396–407.
 [30] Mihai Codoban, Sruti Srinivasa Ragavan, Danny Dig, and Brian Bailey. 2015. Software history under the lens: A study on why and how developers
      examine it. In Proceedings of the IEEE International Conference on Software Maintenance and Evolution (ICSME’15). 1–10.
 [31] Jacob Cohen. 1960. A coefficient of agreement for nominal scales. Educational and psychological measurement 20, 1 (1960), 37–46.
 [32] Jacob Cohen. 1968. Weighted kappa: Nominal scale agreement provision for scaled disagreement or partial credit. Psychological bulletin 70, 4
      (1968), 213.
 [33] Luis Fernando Cortés-Coy, Mario Linares-Vásquez, Jairo Aponte, and Denys Poshyvanyk. 2014. On automatically generating commit messages
      via summarization of source code changes. In 2014 IEEE 14th International Working Conference on Source Code Analysis and Manipulation. IEEE,
      275–284.
 [34] DAIR.AI. 2026. Prompt Engineering Guide. https://www.promptingguide.ai/introduction/elements Accessed: 2026-05-03.
 [35] Mouna Dhaouadi, Bentley Oakes, and Michalis Famelis. 2025. Automated Extraction and Analysis of Developer’s Rationale in Open Source
      Software. Proceedings of the ACM on Software Engineering 2, FSE (2025), 2548–2570.
 [36] Mouna Dhaouadi, Bentley James Oakes, and Michalis Famelis. 2022. End-to-end rationale reconstruction. In Proceedings of the 37th IEEE/ACM
      International Conference on Automated Software Engineering. 1–5.
 [37] Mouna Dhaouadi, Bentley James Oakes, and Michalis Famelis. 2024. Rationale dataset and analysis for the commit messages of the Linux kernel
      out-of-memory killer. In Proceedings of the 32nd IEEE/ACM International Conference on Program Comprehension. 415–425.
 [38] Mouna Dhaouadi, Bentley James Oakes, and Michalis Famelis. 2025. CoMRAT: Commit Message Rationale Analysis Tool. 2025 IEEE/ACM 22nd
      International Conference on Mining Software Repositories (MSR) (2025), 831–835. https://api.semanticscholar.org/CorpusID:278777370
 [39] Andrea Di Sorbo, Sebastiano Panichella, Corrado A Visaggio, Massimiliano Di Penta, Gerardo Canfora, and Harald C Gall. 2019. Exploiting natural
      language structures in software informal documentation. IEEE Transactions on Software Engineering 47, 8 (2019), 1587–1604.
 [40] Allen H Dutoit, Raymond McCall, Ivan Mistrik, and Barbara Paech. 2006. Rationale management in software engineering: Concepts and techniques.
      In Rationale management in software engineering. Springer, 1–48.
 [41] Felipe Ebert, Fernando Castor, Nicole Novielli, and Alexander Serebrenik. 2019. Confusion in Code Reviews: Reasons, Impacts, and Coping
      Strategies. In Proceedings of the IEEE 26th International Conference on Software Analysis, Evolution and Reengineering. 49–60.
 [42] Rik Farenhorst, Patricia Lago, and Hans Van Vliet. 2007. EAGLE: Effective tool support for sharing architectural knowledge. International Journal
      of Cooperative Information Systems 16, 03n04 (2007), 413–437.
 [43] Gemini. 2026. Gemini Prompting Strategies. https://ai.google.dev/gemini-api/docs/prompting-strategies#gemini-3 Accessed: 2026-05-03.
 [44] Fabian Gilson and Vincent Englebert. 2011. Rationale, decisions and alternatives traceability for architecture design. In Proceedings of the 5th
      European Conference on Software Architecture: Companion Volume. 1–9.
 [45] Google DeepMind. 2025. Gemini 3 Flash: Frontier Intelligence Built for Speed. Google. https://blog.google/products-and-platforms/products/gemini/
      gemini-3-flash/ Version released 2025-12-17.
 [46] Google DeepMind. 2025. Gemini 3 Flash: Model Card. Google. https://storage.googleapis.com/deepmind-media/Model-Cards/Gemini-3-Flash-
      Model-Card.pdf Version released 2025-12-17.
 [47] Daqing Hou, Chandan Raj Rupakheti, and H. James Hoover. 2008. Documenting and Evaluating Scattered Concerns for Framework Usability: A
      Case Study. In 2008 15th Asia-Pacific Software Engineering Conference. 213–220. https://doi.org/10.1109/APSEC.2008.39
 [48] Siyuan Jiang, Ameer Armaly, and Collin McMillan. 2017. Automatically generating commit messages from diffs using neural machine translation.
      In 2017 32nd IEEE/ACM International Conference on Automated Software Engineering (ASE). IEEE, 135–146.
 [49] Carlos E Jimenez, John Yang, Alexander Wettig, Shunyu Yao, Kexin Pei, Ofir Press, and Karthik R Narasimhan. 2024. SWE-bench: Can Language
      Models Resolve Real-world Github Issues?. In The Twelfth International Conference on Learning Representations. https://openreview.net/forum?id=
      VTF8yNQM66
 [50] H. Kaiya, H. Horai, and M. Saeki. 2002. AGORA: attributed goal-oriented requirements analysis method. In Proceedings IEEE Joint International
      Conference on Requirements Engineering. 13–22. https://doi.org/10.1109/ICRE.2002.1048501
 [51] Tushar Khot, Harsh Trivedi, Matthew Finlayson, Yao Fu, Kyle Richardson, Peter Clark, and Ashish Sabharwal. 2022. Decomposed prompting: A
      modular approach for solving complex tasks. arXiv preprint arXiv:2210.02406 (2022).
Manuscript submitted to ACM
Recovering Fine-Grained Code Change Rationale from Multiple Software Artifacts                                                                     51


[52] Hiroyuki Kirinuki, Yoshiki Higo, Keisuke Hotta, and Shinji Kusumoto. 2014. Hey! are you committing tangled changes?. In Proceedings of the 22nd
     International Conference on Program Comprehension. 262–265.
[53] Anja Kleebaum, Jan Ole Johanssen, Barbara Paech, Rana Alkadhi, and Bernd Bruegge. 2018. Decision knowledge triggers in continuous software
     engineering. In Proceedings of the 4th International Workshop on Rapid Continuous Software Engineering. Association for Computing Machinery,
     23–26. https://doi.org/10.1145/3194760.3194765
[54] Anja Kleebaum, Jan O. Johanssen, Barbara Paech, and Bernd Bruegge. 2019. How do Practitioners Manage Decision Knowledge during Continuous
     Software Engineering?. In Proceedings of the 31st International Conference on Software Engineering and Knowledge Engineering (SEKE’19). 735–740.
[55] Anja Kleebaum, Jan Ole Johanssen, Barbara Paech, and Bernd Bruegge. 2020. Continuous Management of Requirement Decisions Using the
     ConDec Tools. In REFSQ Workshops 2020. CEUR-WS. org.
[56] Anja Kleebaum, Barbara Paech, Jan Ole Johanssen, and Bernd Bruegge. 2021. Continuous Rationale Visualization. In 2021 Working Conference on
     Software Visualization (VISSOFT). 33–43. https://doi.org/10.1109/VISSOFT52517.2021.00013
[57] Andrew J Ko, Robert DeLine, and Gina Venolia. 2007. Information needs in collocated software development teams. In 29th International Conference
     on Software Engineering (ICSE’07). 344–353.
[58] Klaus Krippendorff. 2018. Content analysis: An introduction to its methodology. Sage publications.
[59] Werner Kunz and Horst WJ Rittel. 1970. Issues as elements of information systems. (1970).
[60] Yuri Kuratov, Aydar Bulatov, Petr Anokhin, Ivan Rodkin, Dmitry Sorokin, Artyom Sorokin, and Mikhail Burtsev. 2024. Babilong: Testing the limits
     of llms with long context reasoning-in-a-haystack. Advances in Neural Information Processing Systems 37 (2024), 106519–106554.
[61] Thomas D. LaToza and Brad A. Myers. 2010. Hard-to-answer questions about code. In Evaluation and Usability of Programming Languages and
     Tools. Association for Computing Machinery, 1–6. http://doi.org/10.1145/1937117.1937125
[62] Jintae Lee. 1991. Extending the Potts and Bruns model for recording design rationale. In Proceedings-13th International Conference on Software
     Engineering. IEEE Computer Society, 114–115.
[63] Chao Lei, Yanchuan Chang, Nir Lipovetzky, and Krista A Ehinger. 2025. Planning-driven programming: A large language model programming
     workflow. In Proceedings of the 63rd Annual Meeting of the Association for Computational Linguistics (Volume 1: Long Papers). 12647–12684.
[64] Miriam Lester and Janet E Burge. 2018. Identifying design rationale using ant colony optimization. In International Conference on-Design Computing
     and Cognition. Springer, 537–554.
[65] Mosh Levy, Alon Jacoby, and Yoav Goldberg. 2024. Same task, more tokens: the impact of input length on the reasoning performance of large
     language models. In Proceedings of the 62nd Annual Meeting of the Association for Computational Linguistics (Volume 1: Long Papers). 15339–15353.
[66] Jiawei Li and Iftekhar Ahmed. 2023. Commit message matters: Investigating impact and evolution of commit message quality. In 2023 IEEE/ACM
     45th International Conference on Software Engineering (ICSE). IEEE, 806–817.
[67] Jiawei Li, David Faragó, Christian Petrov, and Iftekhar Ahmed. 2024. Only diff is not enough: Generating commit messages leveraging reasoning
     and action of large language model. Proceedings of the ACM on Software Engineering 1, FSE (2024), 745–766.
[68] Jierui Li, Hung Le, Yingbo Zhou, Caiming Xiong, Silvio Savarese, and Doyen Sahoo. 2025. Codetree: Agent-guided tree search for code generation
     with large language models. In Proceedings of the 2025 Conference of the Nations of the Americas Chapter of the Association for Computational
     Linguistics: Human Language Technologies (Volume 1: Long Papers). 3711–3726.
[69] Xueying Li, Peng Liang, and Zengyang Li. 2020. Automatic Identification of Decisions from the Hibernate Developer Mailing List. In Proceedings of
     the Evaluation and Assessment in Software Engineering. ACM, 51–60. https://dl.acm.org/doi/10.1145/3383219.3383225
[70] Jenny T Liang, Maryam Arab, Minhyuk Ko, Amy J Ko, and Thomas D LaToza. 2023. A qualitative study on the implementation design decisions of
     developers. In 2023 IEEE/ACM 45th International Conference on Software Engineering (ICSE). 435–447.
[71] Zhan Ling, Kang Liu, Kai Yan, Yifan Yang, Weijian Lin, Ting-Han Fan, Lingfeng Shen, Zhengyin Du, and Jiecao Chen. 2025. Longreason: A synthetic
     long-context reasoning benchmark via context expansion. arXiv preprint arXiv:2501.15089 (2025).
[72] Qin Liu, Zihe Liu, Hongming Zhu, Hongfei Fan, Bowen Du, and Yu Qian. 2019. Generating commit messages from diffs using pointer-generator
     network. In 2019 IEEE/ACM 16th International Conference on Mining Software Repositories (MSR). IEEE, 299–309.
[73] Shangqing Liu, Cuiyun Gao, Sen Chen, Lun Yiu Nie, and Yang Liu. 2020. Atom: Commit message generation based on abstract syntax tree and
     hybrid ranking. IEEE Transactions on Software Engineering 48, 5 (2020), 1800–1817.
[74] Zhongxin Liu, Xin Xia, Ahmed E Hassan, David Lo, Zhenchang Xing, and Xinyu Wang. 2018. Neural-machine-translation-based commit message
     generation: how far are we?. In Proceedings of the 33rd ACM/IEEE international conference on automated software engineering. 373–384.
[75] Claudia López, Víctor Codocedo, Hernán Astudillo, and Luiz Marcio Cysneiros. 2012. Bridging the gap between software architecture rationale
     formalisms and actual architecture documents: An ontology-driven approach. Science of Computer Programming 77, 1 (2012), 66–80.
[76] Pablo Loyola, Edison Marrese-Taylor, and Yutaka Matsuo. 2017. A neural architecture for generating natural language descriptions from source
     code changes. In Proceedings of the 55th Annual Meeting of the Association for Computational Linguistics (Volume 2: Short Papers). 287–292.
[77] Allan MacLean, Richard Young, Victoria Bellotti, and Thomas Moran. 1991. Questions, Options, and Criteria: Elements of Design Space Analysis.
     Human-Computer Interaction 6 (09 1991), 201–250. https://doi.org/10.1080/07370024.1991.9667168
[78] Abhinav Reddy Mandli, Saurabhsingh Rajput, and Tushar Sharma. 2025. COMET: Generating commit messages using delta graph context
     representation. Journal of Systems and Software 222 (2025), 112307.
[79] Umme Ayda Mannan, Iftekhar Ahmed, Carlos Jensen, and Anita Sarma. 2020. On the relationship between design discussions and design quality: a
     case study of Apache projects. In Proceedings of the 28th ACM Joint Meeting on European Software Engineering Conference and Symposium on the
                                                                                                                       Manuscript submitted to ACM
52                                   Mehedi Sun, Antu Saha, Nadeeshan De Silva, Antonio Mastropaolo, and Oscar Chaparro


      Foundations of Software Engineering. ACM, 543–555. https://dl.acm.org/doi/10.1145/3368089.3409707
 [80] Christian Manteuffel, Dan Tofan, Paris Avgeriou, Heiko Koziolek, and Thomas Goldschmidt. 2016. Decision architect–A decision documentation
      tool for industry. Journal of Systems and Software 112 (2016), 181–198.
 [81] Sahar Mehrpour, Thomas D. LaToza, and Rahul K. Kindi. 2019. Active Documentation: Helping Developers Follow Design Decisions. In 2019 IEEE
      Symposium on Visual Languages and Human-Centric Computing (VL/HCC). 87–96.
 [82] OpenAI. 2025. GPT-5.2: Technical Report and System Card. OpenAI. https://openai.com/index/gpt-5-system-card-update-gpt-5-2/ Version released
      2025-12-11.
 [83] OpenAI. 2025. OpenAI o4-mini: Reasoning Language Model. https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/OpenAI_o4-mini Accessed: 2025-09-11.
 [84] OpenAI. 2025. Text Embedding 3 Large. https://platform.openai.com/docs/models/text-embedding-3-large Accessed: 2025-09-11.
 [85] OpenAI. 2026. OpenAI Prompt optimizer. https://developers.openai.com/api/docs/guides/prompt-optimizer Accessed: 2026-05-03.
 [86] Luca Pascarella, Magiel Bruntink, and Alberto Bacchelli. 2019. Classifying code comments in Java software systems. Empirical Software Engineering
      24, 3 (2019), 1499–1537.
 [87] Luca Pascarella, Davide Spadini, Fabio Palomba, Magiel Bruntink, and Alberto Bacchelli. 2018. Information needs in contemporary code review.
      Proceedings of the ACM on human-computer interaction 2, CSCW (2018), 1–27.
 [88] Colin Potts and Glenn Bruns. 1988. Recording the reasons for design decisions. In ICSE, Vol. 88. 418–427.
 [89] Qualtrics. 2026. Qualtrics XM. https://qualtrics.com Software accessed May 2026.
 [90] Pooja Rani, Sebastiano Panichella, Manuel Leuenberger, Andrea Di Sorbo, and Oscar Nierstrasz. 2021. How to identify class comment types? A
      multi-language approach for class comment classification. Journal of systems and software 181 (2021), 111047.
 [91] Sarah Rastkar and Gail C. Murphy. 2013. Why did this code change?. In Proceedings of the 35th International Conference on Software Engineering
      (ICSE’13). 1193–1196.
 [92] Michael Rath, Jacob Rendall, Jin L. C. Guo, Jane Cleland-Huang, and Patrick Mäder. 2018. Traceability in the wild: automatically augmenting
      incomplete trace links. In Proceedings of the 40th International Conference on Software Engineering (Gothenburg, Sweden) (ICSE ’18). Association for
      Computing Machinery, New York, NY, USA, 834–845. https://doi.org/10.1145/3180155.3180207
 [93] C. J. Van Rijsbergen. 1979. Information Retrieval (2nd ed.). Butterworth-Heinemann, USA.
 [94] Tobias Roehm, Rebecca Tiarks, Rainer Koschke, and Walid Maalej. 2012. How do professional developers comprehend software?. In 2012 34th
      International Conference on Software Engineering (ICSE). IEEE, 255–265.
 [95] Benjamin Rogers, James Gung, Yechen Qiao, and Janet E. Burge. 2012. Exploring techniques for rationale extraction from existing documents. In
      Proceedings of the 34th International Conference on Software Engineering (Zurich, Switzerland) (ICSE ’12). IEEE Press, 1313–1316.
 [96] Benjamin Rogers, Yechen Qiao, James Gung, Tanmay Mathur, and Janet E Burge. 2015. Using text mining techniques to extract rationale from
      existing documentation. In Design computing and cognition’14. Springer, 457–474.
 [97] Dimitrios Rontogiannis, Maxime Peyrard, Nicolas Baldwin, Martin Josifoski, Robert West, and Dimitrios Gunopulos. 2026. Interactive evaluation of
      large language models for multi-requirement software engineering tasks. In Proceedings of the AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence, Vol. 40.
      32843–32850.
 [98] Khadijah Al Safwan and Francisco Servant. 2019. Decomposing the rationale of code commits: the software developer’s perspective. In Proceedings
      of the 2019 27th ACM Joint Meeting on European Software Engineering Conference and Symposium on the Foundations of Software Engineering. ACM,
      397–408. https://dl.acm.org/doi/10.1145/3338906.3338979
 [99] Antu Saha and Oscar Chaparro. 2025. Decoding the issue resolution process in practice via issue report analysis: A case study of firefox. arXiv
      preprint arXiv:2502.16546 (2025).
[100] Antu Saha, Mehedi Sun, and Oscar Chaparro. 2025. Automatically Identifying Solution-Related Content in Issue Report Discussions with Language
      Models. arXiv preprint arXiv:2511.06501 (2025).
[101] Pankajeshwara Nand Sharma, Bastin Tony Roy Savarimuthu, and Nigel Stanger. 2021. Extracting Rationale for Open Source Software Development
      Decisions — A Study of Python Email Archives. In Proceedings of the IEEE/ACM 43rd International Conference on Software Engineering (ICSE’21).
      1008–1019.
[102] Jonathan Sillito, Gail C. Murphy, and Kris De Volder. 2008. Asking and Answering Questions during a Programming Change Task. IEEE Transactions
      on Software Engineering 34, 4 (2008), 434–451.
[103] Adriana Meza Soria, Taylor Lopez, Elizabeth Seero, Negin Mashhadi, Emily Evans, Janet Burge, and André Van der Hoek. 2024. Characterizing
      software maintenance meetings: Information shared, discussion outcomes, and information captured. In Proceedings of the 46th IEEE/ACM
      International Conference on Software Engineering. 1–13.
[104] Alistair Sutcliffe. 1995. Requirements rationales: integrating approaches to requirement analysis. In Proceedings of the 1st conference on Designing
      interactive systems: processes, practices, methods, & techniques. 33–42.
[105] Antony Tang, Muhammad Ali Babar, Ian Gorton, and Jun Han. 2006. A survey of architecture design rationale. Journal of systems and software 79,
      12 (2006), 1792–1804.
[106] Antony Tang, Yan Jin, and Jun Han. 2007. A rationale-based architecture model for design traceability and reasoning. Journal of Systems and
      Software 80, 6 (2007), 918–934.
[107] Yida Tao, Yingnong Dang, Tao Xie, Dongmei Zhang, and Sunghun Kim. 2012. How do software engineers understand code changes? an exploratory
      study in industry. In Proceedings of the ACM SIGSOFT 20th International Symposium on the Foundations of Software Engineering. Association for
Manuscript submitted to ACM
Recovering Fine-Grained Code Change Rationale from Multiple Software Artifacts                                                                     53


      Computing Machinery, 1–11. http://doi.org/10.1145/2393596.2393656
[108] Yingchen Tian, Yuxia Zhang, Klaas-Jan Stol, Lin Jiang, and Hui Liu. 2022. What makes a good commit message?. In Proceedings of the 44th
      International Conference on Software Engineering. 2389–2401.
[109] Tahir Ullah, Javed Ali Khan, Nek Dil Khan, Affan Yasin, and Hasna Arshad. 2023. Exploring and mining rationale information for low-rating
      software applications: T. Ullah et al. Soft Computing (2023), 1–26.
[110] A. van Lamsweerde. 2001. Goal-oriented requirements engineering: a guided tour. In Proceedings Fifth IEEE International Symposium on Requirements
      Engineering. 249–262. https://doi.org/10.1109/ISRE.2001.948567
[111] Yifan Wu, Yunpeng Wang, Ying Li, Wei Tao, Siyu Yu, Haowen Yang, Wei Jiang, and Jianguo Li. 2025. An Empirical Study on Commit Message
      Generation using LLMs via In-Context Learning. arXiv preprint arXiv:2502.18904 (2025).
[112] Pengyu Xue, Linhao Wu, Zhongxing Yu, Zhi Jin, Zhen Yang, Xinyi Li, Zhenyu Yang, and Yue Tan. 2024. Automated commit message generation
      with large language models: An empirical study and beyond. IEEE Transactions on Software Engineering 50, 12 (2024), 3208–3224.
[113] Inseok Yeo, Duksan Ryu, and Jongmoon Baik. 2025. Improving llm-based fault localization with external memory and project context. arXiv
      preprint arXiv:2506.03585 (2025).
[114] Xin Yin, Chao Ni, Shaohua Wang, Zhenhao Li, Limin Zeng, and Xiaohu Yang. 2024. Thinkrepair: Self-directed automated program repair. In
      Proceedings of the 33rd ACM SIGSOFT International Symposium on Software Testing and Analysis. 1274–1286.
[115] Carmen Zannier, Mike Chiasson, and Frank Maurer. 2007. A model of design decision making based on empirical results of interviews with
      software designers. Information and Software Technology 49 (2007), 637–653.
[116] Yuwei Zhang, Jayanth Srinivasa, Gaowen Liu, and Jingbo Shang. 2025. Attention reveals more than tokens: Training-free long-context reasoning
      with attention-guided retrieval. arXiv preprint arXiv:2503.09819 (2025).
[117] Jiuang Zhao, Zitian Yang, Li Zhang, Xiaoli Lian, Donghao Yang, and Xin Tan. 2024. DRMiner: Extracting Latent Design Rationale from Jira Issue
      Logs. 2024 39th IEEE/ACM International Conference on Automated Software Engineering (ASE) (2024), 468–480.
[118] Xiyu Zhou, Ruiyin Li, Peng Liang, Beiqi Zhang, Mojtaba Shahin, Zengyang Li, and Chen Yang. 2025. Using LLMs in generating design rationale for
      software architecture decisions. ACM Transactions on Software Engineering and Methodology (2025).
[119] Thomas Zimmermann, Rahul Premraj, Nicolas Bettenburg, Sascha Just, Adrian Schroter, and Cathrin Weiss. 2010. What makes a good bug report?
      IEEE Transactions on Software Engineering 36, 5 (2010), 618–643.




                                                                                                                        Manuscript submitted to ACM
