                                          Deciphering Refactoring Branch Dynamics in Modern
                                               Code Review: An Empirical Study on Qt

                                                                           Eman Abdullah AlOmara,∗
                                                               a
                                                                   Stevens Institute of Technology, Hoboken, NJ, USA
arXiv:2410.04678v2 [cs.SE] 30 Jan 2025




                                         Abstract

                                         Context: Modern code review is a widely employed technique in both industrial
                                         and open-source projects, serving to enhance software quality, share knowledge,
                                         and ensure compliance with coding standards and guidelines. While code re-
                                         view is extensively studied for its general challenges, best practices, outcomes,
                                         and socio-technical aspects, little attention has been paid to how refactoring is
                                         reviewed and what developers prioritize when reviewing refactored code in the
                                         ‘Refactor’ branch.
                                         Objective: The goal is to understand the review process for refactoring changes
                                         in the ‘Refactor’ branch and to identify what developers care about when re-
                                         viewing code in this branch.
                                         Method: In this study, we present a quantitative and qualitative examination
                                         to understand the main criteria developers use to decide whether to accept or
                                         reject refactored code submissions and identify the challenges inherent in this
                                         process.
                                         Results: Analyzing 2,154 refactoring and non-refactoring reviews across Qt
                                         open-source projects, we find that reviews involving refactoring from the ‘Re-
                                         factor’ branch take significantly less time to resolve in terms of code review ef-
                                         forts. Additionally, documentation of developer intent is notably sparse within
                                         the ‘Refactor’ branch compared to other branches. Furthermore, through them-
                                         atic analysis of a substantial sample of refactoring code review discussions, we

                                           ∗
                                               Corresponding author
                                               Email address: ealomar@stevens.edu (Eman Abdullah AlOmar)




                                         Preprint submitted to Journal of LATEX Templates                              31st January 2025
construct a comprehensive taxonomy consisting of 12 refactoring review criteria.
Conclusion: Our findings underscore the importance of developing precise
and efficient tools and techniques to aid developers in the review process amidst
refactorings.
Keywords: refactoring, code review, developer perception, software quality


1. Introduction

   Refactoring is a crucial practice for maintaining code quality as software
evolves. Its significance has expanded beyond mere code cleanup to become
a cornerstone of modern software development. This has attracted significant
attention from researchers, evident in the numerous research papers dedicated
to the topic [1]. Another key practice in maintaining software quality is code
review [2]. It has become another important to reduce technical debt, and
to detect potential coding errors [2–4]. Code review represents the manual
inspection of any newly performed changes to the code, for the purpose of
verifying integrity, compliance with standards, and error-freedom [5]. Today’s
Modern Code Review (MCR) process is typically lightweight and tool-based,
relying heavily on discussions between authors and reviewers to decide whether
to merge or discard a code change [6].
   Refactoring changes, like any other code modifications, must undergo review
before being merged. Failure to apply refactoring properly can lead to adverse
effects, including compromised software quality [7–10] and inducing bugs [11, 12]
making refactoring changes more challenging to review. However, little is known
about how reviewers examine refactoring related code changes, especially when
it is intended to serve the same purpose of improving software quality. Accord-
ing to the industrial case study, AlOmar et al. [13] has found that reviewing
refactoring related code changes takes a significantly longer time, in comparison
with other code changes, demonstrating the need for refactoring review culture.
Yet, little is known about what criteria reviewers consider when they review
refactoring. Most of refactoring studies focus on its automation by recommend-


                                         2
ing refactoring opportunities in the source code [14–16], or mining performed
refactorings in change histories of software repositories [17]. Moreover, while re-
search on code reviews has concentrated on automation, such as recommending
the most suitable reviewer for a given code change [2], the review process for
refactoring changes in the ‘Refactor’ branch remains largely unexplored.




          Figure 1: Example of a code review from Qt project using Gerrit [18, 19].

   Building upon our previous research [13, 20], which revealed that refactoring
code reviews often take longer to be approved, we now delve deeper into the
specific practices of refactoring review within an ecosystem featuring a dedicated
‘Refactor’ branch. This investigation aims to provide insights into addressing
the challenges identified in our previous studies, thus contributing to a more
efficient and effective refactoring review process. Specifically, the goal of this
paper is to understand the criteria developers use when reviewing refactored
code in the ‘Refactor’ branch, focusing on what influences their decisions to


                                             3
accept or reject submissions.
   In our study, we explore two distinct venues where refactoring can occur:
the typical branch and the refactoring branch. The typical branch refers to
the standard development workflow where incremental changes and features
are integrated. In contrast, the refactoring branch is specifically dedicated to
restructuring and improving the codebase without altering its external beha-
vior. Figure 1 illustrates a segment of the refactoring review from the ‘Refactor’
branch and other branches within the Qt system. The top example shows a
code review that was created to refactor QMouseEvent to contain the position
inside the window. The developers submitted the code, while explicitly stating
that the refactoring was intended to rename the default accessors for positions
to localPos, windowPos and screenPos, to be explicit about their use. This
can also be seen in the final subject and description of the review that later
merged the modified code into production. Based on this example, we can
see that rename was one of the refactoring operations that developers consider
for code optimization, and author confirms its quality improvement as follows
“There’s no behavioural change. All I did was add the windowPos(), and make
sure it’s set correctly everywhere. Old code will continue to work just as be-
fore.” In contrast, the bottom example reveals changes to the QtBase module.
It focuses on enhancing the code by removing unnecessary elements, improving
readability, and making the code more maintainable. The review includes de-
tailed comments from developers discussing the impact and necessity of these
changes, aiming to ensure that the refactoring maintains the module’s function-
ality while improving its structure. This review had a longer review duration
and more extensive discussion compared to the ‘Refactor’ branch reviews. We
believe that early clarification of the ‘Refactor’ and the typical branch is crucial
for understanding their roles in the development process. The typical branch
often prioritizes feature development and bug fixes, while the refactoring branch
focuses on enhancing code quality, maintainability, and performance. By distin-
guishing between these two branches, we aim to highlight the unique challenges
and considerations associated with each, thereby providing a comprehensive


                                         4
understanding of their impact on the software development lifecycle.
   Therefore, we conduct our study using the following overarching question:
How do developers approach and evaluate refactoring tasks compared to non-
refactoring tasks during code reviews, and what patterns, quality attributes, and
topics are emphasized in these reviews?
   To answer our research questions, we first extracted a set of 718 refactoring-
related code reviews in the ‘Refactor’ branch from the Qt ecosystem. Then,
we compared this set of refactoring-related code reviews in ‘Refactor’ branch,
with another two sets of code reviews, in terms of the number of reviewers,
number of review comments, number of inline comments, number of revision,
number of changed files, review duration, discussion and description length,
and code churn. Our empirical investigation indicates that refactoring-related
code reviews from ‘Refactor’ branch take significantly shorter to be resolved and
typically trigger fewer discussions between developers and reviewers to reach a
consensus. To understand the key characteristics of reviewing refactored code,
we perform a thematic analysis on a significant sample of these reviews. This
process resulted in a hierarchical taxonomy composed of four categories, and 12
sub-categories.
   We provide our experiments package [21] to further replicate and extend our
study. The package contains raw data, analyzed data, statistical test results,
survey questions, and custom-built scripts used in our research.
   The remainder of this paper is organized as follows. Section 2 provides
background on the Gerrit-based code review process. Section 3 reviews the
existing studies related to refactoring awareness and code review. Section 4
outlines our empirical setup in terms of data collection, analysis and research
question. Section 5 discusses our findings, while the research implication is
discussed in Section 6. Section 7 captures any threats to the validity of our
work, before concluding with Section 8.




                                       5
                       Figure 2: Gerrit-based code review process overview.


2. Background

      Code review involves the manual assessment of source code by humans to
identify defects and quality issues [22]. However, traditional code review prac-
tices have limitations when applied to globally distributed software development
[23]. In recent years, Modern Code Review (MCR) has emerged as a tool-based
system that is less formal than traditional methods. MCR has become popular
and is widely used in both proprietary software (e.g., Google, Microsoft) and
open-source software (e.g., OpenStack, Qt) [2]. In this study, we selected Gerrit
as it provides robust code review functionality that is essential to maintain code
quality and ensure thorough review processes. This feature is crucial for our
research’s needs, where code integrity and peer review are paramount. In the
following, we provide a brief overview of the Gerrit-based code review system,
a prominent tool frequently used in previous studies [24–27].
      The code review process of the systems studied is based on Gerrit1 , a col-
laborative code review framework. Gerrit facilitates developers in tagging sub-
mitted code changes directly and requesting their assignment to a reviewer.
Generally, a code change author opens a code review request containing a title,
a detailed description of the code change being submitted, written in natural
language, and the current code changes annotated. Once the review request is
submitted, it will appear in the requests backlog and be open to reviewers to

  1
      https://www.gerritcodereview.com/



                                                6
choose from. Once reviewers are assigned to the review request, they inspect
the proposed changes and comment on the review request’s thread to start a
discussion with the author. This way, the authors and reviewers can discuss
the submitted changes, and reviewers can request revisions to the code being
reviewed. Following up discussions and revisions, a review decision is made to
either accept or decline, and so the proposed code changes are either “Merged ”
to production or “Abandoned ”.
   A diagram, modeling a simplified bird’s view of the Gerrit-based code review
process, is shown in Figure 2. It begins with a “Request” for a review, which
is then assigned to a reviewer. The “Review”” phase follows, where the code is
assessed and discussed. If changes are needed, the code enters the “Revision”
phase, where it is revised based on feedback and can be discussed further. This
cycle continues until a decision is made to either “Merge” the code into the
main branch or “Abandon” the changes.


3. Related Work

   Research on code review has been of importance to practitioners and re-
searchers. A considerable effort has been spent by the research community in
studying traditional and modern code review practices and challenges. This
literature has included case studies (e.g., [3, 13, 24, 25, 28–30]), user studies
(e.g., [31–35]), surveys (e.g., [2, 13, 36, 37]), and empirical experiments (e.g.,
[25, 30, 32, 38, 39]). However, most of the above studies focus on studying and
improving the effectiveness of modern code review in general, as opposed to
our work that focuses on understanding developers’ perception of code review
involving refactoring. In this section, we are only interested in research related
to refactoring-aware code review.
   In a study performed at Microsoft, Bacchelli and Bird [2] observed and sur-
veyed developers to understand the challenges faced during code review. They
pointed out purposes for code review (e.g., improving team awareness and trans-
ferring knowledge among teams) along with the actual outcomes (e.g., creating


                                        7
awareness and gaining code understanding). In a similar context, MacLeod et
al. [37] interviewed several teams at Microsoft and conducted a survey to in-
vestigate the human and social factors that influence developers’ experiences
with code review. Both studies found the following general code reviewing chal-
lenges: (1) finding defects, (2) improving the code, and (3) increasing know-
ledge transfer. Ge et al. [28, 29] developed a refactoring-aware code review tool
called ReviewFactor that automatically detects refactoring edits and separates
refactoring from non-refactoring changes with a focus on five refactoring types.
The tool was intended to support developers’ review process by distinguishing
between refactoring and non-refactoring changes, but it does not provide any
insights on the quality of the performed refactoring. Inspired by the work of
[28, 29], Alves et al. [34, 40] proposed a static analysis tool, called RefDistiller,
that helps developers inspect manual refactoring edits. The tool compares two
program versions to detect refactoring anomalies’ type and location. It sup-
ports six refactoring operations, detects incomplete refactorings, and provides
inspection for manual refactorings.
   Coelho et al. [41] performed a systematic literature mapping study on re-
factoring tools to support modern code review. They raised the need for more
tools to explain composite refactorings. They also reported the need for more
surveys to assess the existing refactoring tools for modern code review in both
open-source and industrial projects. Pascarella et al. [42] investigated the ef-
fect of code review on bad programming practices (i.e., code smells). Their
approach mainly focused on comparing code smells at the file level before and
after the code review process. Additionally, they manually investigated whether
the severity of code smells was reduced in a code review or not. Their results
show that in 95% of the cases, the severity of code smells does not decrease with
a review. The reduction in code smells in the remaining few cases was impacted
by code insertion and refactoring-related changes.
   Paixão et al. [43] explored if developers’ intents influence the evolution of
refactorings during the review of a code change by mining 1,780 reviewed code
changes from 6 open-source systems. Their main findings show that refactorings


                                         8
are most often used in code reviews that implement new features, accounting for
63% of the code changes we studied. Only in 31% of the code reviews that em-
ployed refactorings the developers had the explicit intent of refactoring. Uchôa
et al. [44] reported the multi-project retrospective study that characterizes how
the process of design degradation evolves within each review and across multiple
reviews. The authors utilized software metrics to observe the influence of cer-
tain code review practices on combating design degradation. The authors found
that the majority of code reviews had little to no design degradation impact in
the analyzed projects. Additionally, the practices of long discussions and the
high proportion of review disagreement in code reviews were found to increase
design degradation. In their study on predicting design impactful changes in
modern code review with technical and/or social aspects, Uchôa et al. [45] ana-
lyzed reviewed code changes from seven open source projects. By evaluating six
machine learning algorithms, the authors found that technical features result
in more precise predictions, and the use of social features alone also leads to
accurate predictions.
   A couple of studies considered pull requests as a main source of the study
code review process. Pantiuchina et al. [46] presented a mining-based study
to investigate why developers are performing refactoring in the history of 150
open source systems. Particularly, they analyzed 551 pull requests implemen-
ted refactoring operations and reported a refactoring taxonomy that generalizes
the ones existing in the literature. Coelho et al. [47] performed a quantitat-
ive and qualitative study exploring code reviewing-related aspects intending to
characterize refactoring-inducing pull requests. Their main finding show that
refactoring-inducing pull requests take significantly more time to merge than
non-refactoring-inducing pull requests.
   AlOmar et al. [13] conducted a case study in an industrial setting to explore
refactoring practices in the context of modern code review from the following
five dimensions: (1) developers motivations to refactor their code, (2) how de-
velopers document their refactoring for code review, (3) the challenges faced
by reviewers when reviewing refactoring changes, (4) the mechanisms used by


                                          9
reviewers to ensure the correctness after refactoring, and (5) developers and
reviewers assessment of refactoring impact on the source code’s quality. Their
findings show that refactoring code reviews take longer to be completed than
non-refactoring code reviews. In a follow-up work, AlOmar et al. [20] performed
an emperical study on OpenStack to understand the challenges developers faced
when reviewing refactoring changes. Their findings corroborate the results of
their industrial case study, indicating that refactoring changes require more
time for acceptance compared to non-refactoring changes. Brito and Valente
[48] introduced RAID, a refactoring-aware and intelligent diff tool to alleviate
the cognitive effort associated with code reviews. The tool relied on RefDiff [49]
and is fully integrated with the state-of-the-art practice of continuous integration
pipelines (GitHub Actions) and browsers (Google Chrome). The authors eval-
uated the tool with eight professional developers and found that RAID indeed
reduced the cognitive effort required for detecting and reviewing refactorings.
In another study, Kurbatova et al. [50] presented RefactorInsight, a plugin for
IntelliJ IDEA that integrates information about refactorings in diffs in the IDE,
auto folds refactorings in code diffs in Java and Kotlin, and shows hints with
their short descriptions.
   To summarize, the study of open source projects that use either the Gerrit
tools or GitHub pull requests has been extensively studied (e.g., [24, 46, 51, 52]).
Since notable open-source organizations such as Eclipse, OpenStack, and Qt ad-
opted Gerrit as their code review management tool, we chose to analyze refact-
oring practices in modern code review from projects that adopted Gerrit as their
code review tool. Although there are recent studies that explored the motiva-
tion behind refactoring in pull requests [46, 47], to the best of our knowledge, no
prior studies have manually extracted all the criteria developers are facing when
submitting their refactored code for review from a dedicated ‘Refactor’ branch.
To gain a more in-depth understanding of the factors mostly associated with
refactoring review and to advance the understanding of refactoring-aware code
review, in this paper, we performed an empirical study on a rapidly evolving
open-source project. This study complements the existing efforts that are done


                                        10
in an industrial environment [13] and open source systems [20, 46, 47] using
Gerrit and GitHub pull-based development.


4. Study Design

   The main goal of our study is to understand the practice of refactoring in
the context of Modern Code Review (MCR) to characterize the criteria that
influence decision making when reviewing refactoring changes. Thus, we aim to
answer the following research questions:

   • RQ1 . How do refactoring reviews compare to non-refactoring reviews in
     terms of code review efforts?

   • RQ2 . What textual patterns do developers use to describe their refactoring
     needs in the ‘Refactor’ branch?

   • RQ3 . What quality attributes do developers consider when describing re-
     factoring in the ‘Refactor’ branch?

   • RQ4 . What topics do developers discuss when reviewing refactoring tasks?

   According to the guidelines reported by Runeson and Höst [53], we designed
an empirical study that consists of three steps, as depicted in Figure 3, and
discussed in the next subsections. Since our research questions are both quant-
itative and qualitative, we used tools/scripts along with manual activities to
investigate our data. Furthermore, the dataset utilized in this study is available
on our project website [21] for extension and replication purposes.


4.1. Data Collection

4.1.1. Studied Systems
   In line with [30, 54, 55], to select the subject systems, we identified three
important criteria:
Criterion #1: Active MCR practices. Our goal is to study a system that
actively examines code changes through a code review tool. Therefore, we focus


                                       11
                         Phase 1:        Data Collection




       Gerrit server                                                                                                                              Code review
                                                 Select systems using 3 criteria:                              Mine code review                     dataset
                                                       1: Active MCR practices                                                                     (296,090)
                                                                                                                     data
                                                       2: Full review coverage
                                                 3: Has a dedicated `Refactor' branch




                         Phase 2:         Data Preparation



                                                                                                                                                    Refactoring &
                                                                                                                                                   non-refactoring




12
                                                                                                                                                      reviews
     Extract code review dataset         Analyze refactoring reviews             Analyze refactoring reviews    Analyze non-refactoring reviews       dataset
              (296,090)                      (`Refactor' branch)                      (Other branches)                 (Other branches)
                                                    (718)                                  (1,760)                        (101,353)



                             Phase 3:           Data Analysis



                     Review activity                                                                    Thematic analysis
                                                               Review activity                                                                Refactoring criteria
                    metrics calculation                                                                of review discussion
                                                                 analysis                                                                       identification
             (refacatoring & non-refactoring)                                                             (refactoring)


                          Quantitative Analysis                                                                        Qualitative Analysis




                                                              Figure 3: Overview of our experiment design.
on systems where a number of reviews are performed using a code review tool
(i.e., systems which have review procedures in place), similar to [30, 54, 55].
Criterion #2: Full review coverage. Since we investigate the practice of
refactoring-related code reviews, we focus on systems that have many files with
100% review coverage (i.e., files where every change made to them is reviewed
before they are merged into the repositories), similar to studies that explored
code review practices in defective files [25, 54, 55].
Criterion #3: Has a dedicated ‘Refactor’ branch. Since we want to
study refactoring practices in MCR, we need to ensure that the subject systems
have sufficient refactoring-related instances to help us perform our statistical
analysis. So, we selected the project with the highest number of refactoring
reviews.
      To satisfy criterion 1, we started by considering five systems (i.e., Open-
Stack,2 Qt,3 LibreOffice,4 VTK,5 ITK6 ) that use the Gerrit code review tool
and have been widely studied in previous research in MCR, e.g., [56–59]. We
then discarded VTK and ITK since Thongtanunam et al. [55] reported that
the linkage rate of code changes to the reviews for VTK is too low and ITK
does not satisfy criterion 2. As for criterion 3, after mining the code review
data, we found that Qt is the only system with a ‘Refactor’ branch. Due to the
human-intensive nature of carefully studying and analyzing refactoring practice
in MCR, we opt for performing an in-depth study on a single system. With the
above-mentioned criteria in mind, we select Qt, a cross-platform application and
user interface framework developed by Digia Corporation.

  2
    https://review.opendev.org/
  3
    https://codereview.qt-project.org/
  4
    https://gerrit.libreoffice.org/
  5
    http://vtk.org/
  6
    http://itk.org/




                                         13
4.1.2. Mining Code Review Data
      We mined code review data using the RESTful API7 provided by Gerrit,
which returns the results in a JSON format. We used a script to automatically
mine the review data and store them in the SQLite database. All collected
reviews are closed (i.e., having a status of either “Merged ” or “Abandoned ”).
In total, we mined 296,372 code changes between December 2012 and April 2021
from Qt projects. An overview of the project’s statistics is provided in Table 1.


                                Table 1: Overview of the Qt studied system.


                 Item                                                         Count

                 Version                                                      4.7 to 5.11
                 Line of code                                                 21,256,665
                 No. of commits                                               1,659,190
                 No. of code changes                                          296,372
                 No. of developers                                            3,264
                 No. of files                                                 351,387
                 Reviews in ‘Refactor’ branch                                 718
                 Reviews with keyword ‘refactor* ’ in title and description   1,760
                 Non-refactoring reviews from other branches                  101,353




4.2. Data Preparation

      Our main goal is to explore refactoring review culture in ‘Refactor’ branch.
However, to make a comparison, we select refactoring reviews containing the
keyword ‘refactor ’. Similarly to previous work on identifying refactoring changes
or defect-fixing or defect-inducing changes [5, 8, 46, 47, 55, 60–68], we utilize a
keyword-based mechanism to extract refactoring code review data from other
branches. The keyword-based approach was chosen for the manual inspection,
which required not only non-trivial efforts but also a deep knowledge of the do-
main. Specifically, we start by searching for the term ‘refactor* ’ in the title or

  7
      https://gerrit-review.googlesource.com/Documentation/rest-apichanges.html



                                                    14
description (we use * to capture extensions like refactors, refactoring etc.). The
choice of ‘refactor ’, besides being used by various related studies, is intuitively
the first term to identify refactoring-related code review. However, since related
work on refactoring documentation shows that developers may use other syn-
onymous terms/phrases [64, 66, 69, 70], we ensure to exclude these synonymous
terms/phrases when selecting non-refactoring reviews. In summary, we have
extracted the following reviews.

   • Refactoring reviews from the ‘Refactor’ branch. These reviews are spe-
      cifically chosen from a dedicated ‘Refactor’ branch.

   • Refactoring reviews containing the keyword ‘refactor’. These reviews in-
      clude the keyword ‘refactor ’ in their title and description and are selected
      from branches other than the ‘Refactor’ branch.

   • Non-refactoring reviews from other branches. These reviews are selected
      from branches other than the ‘Refactor’ branch, and they do not involve
      refactoring or any synonymous terms/phrases commonly found in the lit-
      erature.

   To extract the set of refactoring-related code reviews, we follow a two-step
procedure: (1) automatic filtering, and (2) manual filtering.
   (1) Automatic Filtering. In the first step, we extract all of the 718 review
instances in the ‘Refactor’ branch. We notice that the ratio of these reviews is
very small in comparison with the total number of the mined reviews, i.e.,
296,372.
   (2) Manual Filtering. To ensure the correctness of the data, we manually
inspected and read all these refactoring reviews. Our goal is to have a gold set
of reviews in which the developers explicitly reported the refactoring activity.
This gold set will serve to check later criteria that are mostly associated with
refactoring review discussion. Furthermore, since related work on refactoring
documentation shows that developers may use synonymous terms/phrases [64,



                                        15
66, 69, 70], we ensure to exclude these synonymous terms/phrases and manually
inspect them when selecting non-refactoring reviews.


4.3. Data Analysis

   To address our research questions, a structured mixed-method study was
designed to combine elements of both quantitative and qualitative research.


4.3.1. Quantitative data analysis.
   We leverage the data collected to compare refactoring and non-refactoring
reviews using review efforts, i.e., code review metrics. As we calculate the met-
rics of refactoring and non-refactoring code reviews, we want to distinguish,
for each metric, whether the variation is statistically significant. We first test
for normality using the Shapiro-Wilk normality test [71] and observe that the
distribution of code review activity metrics does not follow a normal distribu-
tion. Therefore, we use the Mann-Whitney U test [72], a non-parametric test,
to compare between the two groups, since these groups are independent of one
another. The null hypothesis is defined by no variation in the metric values
of refactoring and non-refactoring code reviews. Thus, the alternative hypo-
thesis indicates that there is a variation in the metric values. Additionally,
the variation between values of both sets is considered significant if its associ-
ated p-value is less than 0.05. Furthermore, we use the Cliff’s Delta (δ) [73], a
non-parametric effect size measure, to estimate the magnitude of the differences
between refactoring and non-refactoring reviews. As for its interpretation, we
follow the guidelines reported by Romano et al. [74]:

   • Negligible for | δ |< 0.147

   • Small for 0.147 ≤| δ |< 0.33

   • Medium for 0.33 ≤| δ |< 0.474

   • Large for | δ |≥ 0.474




                                       16
   To measure the extent of the relationship between these metrics, we con-
ducted a Spearman rank correlation test (a non-parametric measure) [75]. We
chose a rank correlation because this type of correlation is resilient to data that
is not normally distributed.


4.3.2. Qualitative data analysis.
   To answer RQ2 , RQ3 , and RQ4 , we perform the analysis of the data. The au-
thor manually inspects refactoring review subject, description, and discussions
by considering both the general comments and the inline comments. Next, we
describe the methodology for building and refining the taxonomy.

   Taxonomy Building and Refinement. The goal of the manual analysis
was to categorize the topics discussed in the ‘Refactor’ branch within each of the
refactoring review instances. The entire process was supported by a spreadsheet
application equipped with tagging capabilities. For each instance, the evaluator
was presented with: (i) the metadata as returned by Gerrit (e.g., Gerrit Id,
Gerrit URL); (ii) the branch that was matched in that specific instance; and
(iii) the subject and description in Gerrit for easier inspection.
   The categorization required the assignment of one or more labels to an in-
stance, describing the topics discussed. In case manual inspection revealed that
reviews were not actually used for refactoring tasks, the instance was discarded.
   When analyzing the review discussions, we adopted a thematic analysis ap-
proach based on the guidelines provided by Cruzes et al. [76]. Thematic analysis
is one of the most used methods in Software Engineering literature (e.g., [77]),
which is a technique for identifying and recording patterns (or “themes”) within
a collection of descriptive labels, which we call “codes”. For each refactoring re-
view, we proceeded with the analysis using the following steps: i) Initial reading
of the review discussions; ii) Generating initial codes (i.e., labels) for each re-
view; iii) Translating codes into themes, sub-themes, and higher-order themes;
iv) Reviewing the themes to find opportunities for merging; v) Defining and
naming the final themes, and creating a model of higher-order themes and their
underlying evidence.


                                        17
   The above-mentioned steps were performed independently by two annotat-
ors. One annotator performed the labeling of review discussions independently
of the other author who was responsible for reviewing the taxonomy currently
drafted. By the end of each iteration, the authors met and refined the taxonomy.
   It is important to note that the approach is not a single-step process. As the
codes were analyzed, some of the first cycle codes were subsumed by other codes,
relabeled, or dropped altogether. As the author progressed with the translation
to themes, there was some rearrangement, refinement, and reclassification of
data into different or new codes. For example, we aggregated, into “Refact-
oring”, the preliminary categories “move method ”, “refactoring operations”,
and “rename” that were analyzed. We used the thematic analysis technique to
address RQ4 .
   Taxonomy Validation. In addition to the iterative process of building
the taxonomy, we need to externally validate it from a practitioner’s point of
view [78, 79]. The aim of this validation is to investigate whether it reflects
actual MCR practices. To do so, we validated the taxonomy with a senior
developer, with 8 years of industrial experience, and with 4 years of experience
in code review. The survey contained 9 questions related to the correctness and
representativeness of our taxonomy and proposed guidelines.


5. Results and Discussion

5.1. How do refactoring reviews compare to non-refactoring reviews in terms of
    code review efforts?

Motivation. The first research question aims to explore whether reviewing re-
factoring in ‘Refactor’ branch takes longer compared to refactoring reviews con-
taining the keyword ‘refactor’ and non-refactoring reviews from other branches.
Understanding the differences in review efforts helps identify the unique chal-
lenges and requirements of refactoring reviews compared to non-refactoring ones.
Approach. To address RQ1, we intend to compare refactoring reviews with
non-refactoring reviews, to see whether there are any differences in terms of


                                       18
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     Refactoring code review (‘refactor’ branch)                   Non-refactoring code review                    Statistical difference
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             Metrics                 Min   Q1     Median   Mean      Q3      Max     Min      Q1      Median    Mean          Q3    Max        p-value     Cliff ’s delta (δ)

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                Number of reviewers                  0     2      3        2.93      4       7       0       1        2         3.01      4         8         0            small (0.11)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                Number of review comments            1     3      3        4.67      5       8       1       3        6         9.20      11        22        0            medium (0.3)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                Number of inline comments            0     0      0        1.12      0       0       0       0        0         3.72      2         5         0            medium (0.34)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                Number of revisions                  1     1      1        1.87      2       3       1       1        1         2.44      2         3         0.000211     small (0.09)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                Number of changed files              0     1      2        49.84     4       8       0       1        2         9.08      4         8         0.6369       small (0.01)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                Review duration (seconds)            0     0.15   1.08     90.58     20.66   48.41   0       16.96    163.67    2356.32   1515.01   3719.12   0            medium (0.5)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                Length of discussion (characters)    22    150    190      427.32    298     518     9       135      341.50    2160.06   1008      2312      1.621e-14    small (0.2)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                Length of description (characters)   64    96     123      172.12    200     355     55      102      163       260.2     295       584       1.239e-8     small (0.15)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                Code churn                           0     4      14       1366.49   67      161     0       5        22        364.82    81        191       0.005045     small (0.07)




19
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     Refactoring code review (‘refactor’ branch)          Refactoring code review (Other branches)                Statistical difference
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             Metrics                 Min   Q1     Median   Mean      Q3      Max     Min      Q1      Median    Mean          Q3    Max        p-value     Cliff ’s delta (δ)




     choosing reviews from the rest of the reviews.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                Number of reviewers                  0     2      3        2.93      4       7       1       3        4         3.82      5         8         0            small (0.27)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                Number of review comments            1     3      3        4.67      5       8       1       4        8         12.84     16        34        0            medium (0.43)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                Number of inline comments            0     0      0        1.12      0       0       0       0        0         5.55      4         10        0            medium (0.38)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                Number of revisions                  1     1      1        1.87      2       3       1       2        3         4.13      5         9         0            medium (0.45)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                Number of changed files              0     1      2        49.84     4       8       0       1        3         7.82      8         18        2.187e-14    small (0.2)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                Review duration (seconds)            0     0.15   1.08     90.58     20.66   48.41   0       21.37    126.09    1342.24   1917.12   3719.12   0            large (0.56)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                Length of discussion (characters)    22    150    190      427.32    298     518     36      198      513       6571.11   1528      3469      0            medium (0.37)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           Table 2: Statistics of code review activity efforts.




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                Length of description (characters)   64    96     123      172.12    200     355     68      115      206.5     304.15    356       715       0            medium (0.31)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                Code churn                           0     4      14       1366.49   67      161     0       39       127.5     425.26    356       822       0            medium (0.44)




                                                      the representativeness of the sample [80], we use stratified random sampling by
                                                                                                                                        capturing a diverse range of scenarios and developer interactions. To ensure
                                                                                                                                                                                                                       hensive view of the refactoring review practices within the ‘Refactor’ branch,
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        from the remaining ones in the review framework. This size provides a compre-
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        refactoring reviews and refactoring reviews containing the keyword ‘refactor*’
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         factoring set in the ‘Refactor’ branch contains 718 reviews, we sampled 718 non-
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            code review efforts or metrics listed in Table 2, and Figures 4, 5. Since our re-
Results. By looking at the statistical summary in Table 2, and Figures 4, 5,
we found that reviewing refactoring changes in ‘Refactor’ branch differs, with
fewer reviewers (µ = 2.93), fewer review comments (µ = 4.67), fewer inline com-
ments (µ = 1.12), fewer revisions (µ = 1.87), shorter review time (µ = 90.58),
and fewer discussions and descriptions (µ = 427.32, µ = 172.12, respectively)
compared to reviewing non-refactoring changes. However, reviewing refactoring
changes in the ‘Refactor’ branch shows more file changes (µ = 49.84), and more
added and deleted lines between revisions (µ = 1366.49). As shown in Table
2, we performed a non-parametric Mann-Whitney U test and we obtained a
statistically significant p-value when the values of these two groups were com-
pared (p-value < 0.05 for all review efforts, except number of changed files),
and accompanied with a small, medium, or large effect size depending on the
review effort/metric.
   Regarding the comparison between reviewing refactoring changes from the
‘Refactor’ branch and reviewing refactoring changes with the keyword ‘refactor*’
from other branches, we observed similar patterns as in the previous compar-
ison. Reviewing refactoring changes in the ‘Refactor’ branch significantly differs,
with fewer reviewers, fewer review comments, fewer inline comments, fewer re-
visions, shorter review time, and fewer discussions and descriptions compared
to reviewing refactoring changes from other branches. However, in this com-
parison, there are more changed files and more added and deleted lines between
revisions when reviewing refactoring changes from other branches. The only
difference between this set and the previous comparison is that the difference in
the number of changed files is significant.
   We speculate that the observed differences in reviewing refactoring changes
from the ‘Refactor’ branch and reviewing refactoring changes with the keyword
‘refactor*’ from other branches and non-refactoring reviews can be attributed
to several factors:
Branch Isolation. Reviewing refactoring changes in the ‘Refactor’ branch took
significantly less time compared to the non-refactoring changes. This indicates
that the isolation of refactoring activities could streamline the review process,


                                        20
as reviewers can focus solely on refactoring tasks without being distracted by
other types of changes. The statistically significant shorter review time (p-value
< 0.05) in the ‘Refactor’ branch compared to other branches supports the idea
that a dedicated branch for refactoring helps reduce the overall review effort.

   • Example. In review ID 4058 (see Figure 6), the refactoring change was
      reviewed in just 2.41 seconds with only 4 comments, highlighting how the
      isolated branch facilitated a quick and focused review.

Visibility. Fewer review comments and inline comments in the ‘Refactor’
branch suggest that reviewers quickly understand the changes and provide fo-
cused feedback. This lower number of comments, supported by a statistically
significant p-value, implies that changes in the ‘Refactor’ branch might be re-
ceiving more targeted and effective attention from developers specializing in
refactoring.

   • Example. Review ID 3245 (see Figure 6) had 0 inline comments and was
      approved by a single reviewer, showing how dedicated visibility in the
      ‘Refactor’ branch helps in quick and clear review processes.

Quality. The number of revisions needed and fewer discussions and descriptions
in the ‘Refactor’ branch compared to other branches indicate a higher initial
code quality. The lower number of revisions and the fewer extensive discussions,
with statistically significant differences, suggest that the refactoring changes are
better prepared and understood, aligning with the higher quality hypothesis.

   • Example. Review ID 1290 (see Figure 6) required just one revision and had
      minimal back-and-forth discussion, suggesting that the initial refactoring
      proposal was of high quality.

Developer Expertise. A lower number of reviewers is required for refactoring
changes in the ‘Refactor’ branch compared to non-refactoring changes. The
significant difference in the number of reviewers, supported by p-value < 0.05,
indicates that specialized knowledge in the ‘Refactor’ branch allows for more
efficient and effective reviews, with fewer people needed to reach a consensus.


                                        21
   • Example. In review ID 1733 (see Figure 6), two experienced developers
      quickly approved the change with minimal comments, demonstrating the
      impact of specialized expertise on the efficiency of the review process.

Collaboration Dynamics. Concise discussions and descriptions in the ‘Re-
factor’ branch suggest a more focused and collaborative environment. The stat-
istically significant reduction in discussion length supports the notion that a
collaborative environment in the ‘Refactor’ branch leads to more efficient com-
munication and quicker resolution of review comments.

   • Example. Review ID 123377 (see Figure 6) had a concise discussion with
      96 characters and was finalized quickly in 0.22 seconds, reflecting the col-
      laborative and focused nature of the ‘Refactor’ branch.

   Moreover, we conjecture that reviewing refactoring from other branches trig-
gers longer discussions between the code change authors and the reviewers as
we notice that several refactoring-related actions are being extensively discussed
before reaching an agreement. While previous studies have found a similar pat-
tern in GitHub’s pull requests in open-source systems [47], Gerrit [20], and using
code review tools in industry [13], there is no study that looked at the main reas-
ons for refactoring-related discussions in ‘Refactor’ branch to take significantly
less effort to be reviewed. Therefore, the findings of RQ1 have motivated us to
manually analyze these reviews and extract the main criteria related to review-
ing refactored code (RQ4 ).
   Further, we observe that refactoring-related code reviews from ‘Refactor’
branch impact larger code churn and more changes across files than non-refactoring
code changes. These results are expected and agree with previous work [47, 81,
82], which found that refactored code has higher size-related metrics and larger
changes promote refactorings. We also noticed that the number of developers
who participated in the code review process is lower due to the high number of
lines added, modified, or deleted between revisions. However, unlike a previous
finding [47], no evidence of the correlation between the number of reviewers and
refactoring was detected.


                                        22
           (a) Number of reviewers                     (b) Number of review comments                    (c) Number of inline comments




23
           (d) Number of revisions                        (e) Number of changed files                    (f) Review duration (seconds)




     (g) Length of discussion (characters)           (h) Length of description (characters)                     (i) Code churn



       Figure 4: Boxplots of metrics values of refactoring reviews (‘Refactor’) branch and non-refactoring reviews (Other branches).
           (a) Number of reviewers                     (b) Number of review comments                     (c) Number of inline comments




24
           (d) Number of revisions                        (e) Number of changed files                    (f) Review duration (seconds)




     (g) Length of discussion (characters)           (h) Length of description (characters)                     (i) Code churn



         Figure 5: Boxplots of metrics values of refactoring reviews (‘Refactor’) branch and refactoring reviews (Other branches).
                       Example of Branch Isolation



                                                               Code Review Efforts (Review ID: 4058)

                                                               Number of reviewers: 3
                                                               Number of review comments: 4
                                                               Number of inline comments: 1
                                                               Number of revisions: 1
                                                               Number of changed files: 16
                                                               Review duration (seconds): 2.41
                                                               Length of discussion (characters): 406
                                                               Length of description (characters): 432
                                                               Code churn: 185




                           Example of Visibility




                                                               Code Review Efforts (Review ID: 3245)

                                                               Number of reviewers: 1
                                                               Number of review comments: 2
                                                               Number of inline comments: 0
                                                               Number of revisions: 1
                                                               Number of changed files: 1
                                                               Review duration (seconds): 0.014
                                                               Length of discussion (characters): 128
                                                               Length of description (characters): 106
                                                               Code churn: 1




                           Example of Quality




                                                               Code Review Efforts (Review ID: 1290)

                                                               Number of reviewers: 3
                                                               Number of review comments: 3
                                                               Number of inline comments: 0
                                                               Number of revisions: 1
                                                               Number of changed files: 13
                                                               Review duration (seconds): 0.14
                                                               Length of discussion (characters): 190
                                                               Length of description (characters): 160
                                                               Code churn: 110




                     Example of Developer Expertise



                                                               Code Review Efforts (Review ID: 1733)

                                                               Number of reviewers: 2
                                                               Number of review comments: 4
                                                               Number of inline comments: 3
                                                               Number of revisions: 1
                                                               Number of changed files: 16
                                                               Review duration (seconds): 2380.64
                                                               Length of discussion (characters): 571
                                                               Length of description (characters): 123
                                                               Code churn: 966




                    Example of Collaboration Dynamics




                                                               Code Review Efforts (Review ID: 123377)

                                                               Number of reviewers: 3
                                                               Number of review comments: 3
                                                               Number of inline comments: 0
                                                               Number of revisions: 2
                                                               Number of changed files: 1
                                                               Review duration (seconds): 0.02
                                                               Length of discussion (characters): 96
                                                               Length of description (characters): 124
                                                               Code churn: 2




                                         25 the ‘Refactor’ branch in the Qt project.
Figure 6: Example of refactoring reviews from
    Table 3: List of refactoring documentation (‘*’ captures the extension of the keyword).


             Patterns

             ‘Refactor’ branch


             Chang* (890)        Fix* (340)            Add* (226)             Mov* (226)            Creat* (139)
             Remov* (121)        Refactor* (107)       Merg* (74)             Renam* (33)           Dependenc* (28)
             Replac* (24)        Get rid of (24)       Improv* (18)           Introduc* (18)        Cleanup* (13)
             Modif* (6)          Split* (5)            Extend* (4)            Extract* (4)          Polish* (4)
             Reduc* (4)          Remov* unused (4)     Inlin* (3)             Simplif* (3)          Encapsulat* (2)
             Code clean* (2)     Organiz* (1)          Housekeeping (1)       Fix* regression (1)

             Other branches


             Refactor* (3669)    Chang* (2113)         Mov* (599)             Add* (519)            Fix* (427)
             Remov* (342)        Creat* (253)          Simplif* (96)          Introduc* (93)        Renam* (89)
             Replac* (71)        Split* (70)           Cleanup (68)           Improv* (64)          Extract* (50)
             Modif* (48)         Merg* (40)            Reduc* (33)            Extend* (26)          Rewrit* (23)
             Get rid of (22)     Remov* unused (17)    Dependenc* (14)        Inlin* (13)           Organiz* (12)
             Encapsulat* (9)     Restructur* (8)       Remov* redundant (8)   Enhanc* (7)           Code clean* (6)
             Reformat* (5)       Rework* (4)           Reorder* (3)           Modulariz* (2)        Polish* (2)
             Reorganiz* (2)      Fix regression (3)    Cosmetic chang* (2)    Customiz* (2)         Re-writ* (1)
             Less code (1)       Chang* the name (1)   Code clarity (1)




   Summary. In the ‘Refactor’ branch, the review process is more focused
   due to the branch’s dedicated purpose. This allows developers to concen-
   trate more on refactoring activities. Further, reviews in the ‘Refactor’
   branch tend to have shorter review times. This can be attributed to the
   specialized knowledge of the reviewers who are familiar with refactoring
   techniques, leading to quicker consensus and fewer iterations.



5.2. What textual patterns do developers use to describe their refactoring needs
     in the ‘Refactor’ branch?

Motivation. Since there is no consensus on how to formally document the act
of refactoring code [65, 66], research question two identifies what textual pat-
terns developers have used to describe their refactoring activities in ‘Refactor’
branch. Identifying these patterns can reveal how developers communicate their
intentions and needs, which is crucial to improving documentation and review
processes.
Approach. We manually inspect Qt’s subject and description to identify re-
factoring documentation patterns in refactoring reviews from ‘Refactor’ branch


                                                              26
and refactoring reviews from other branches containing the keyword ‘refactor*’
in the subject and description. These patterns are represented as a keyword or
phrase that frequently occurs in refactoring reviews.
Results. Our in-depth inspection resulted in a list of 29 and 43 refactoring doc-
umentation patterns for refactoring reviews from ‘Refactor’ branch and other
branches, respectively, as shown in Table 3. Our findings show that the names
of refactoring operations (e.g., ‘mov*’, ‘renam*’, ‘extract*’) occur in the top
frequently occurring patterns, and these patterns are mainly linked to code ele-
ments at different levels of granularity such as classes, methods, and variables.
These specific terms are well-known software refactoring operations and indicate
developers’ knowledge of the catalog of refactoring operations. We also observe
that the top-ranked refactoring operation-related keywords include ‘mov*’, ‘re-
nam*’, and ‘extract*’. Moreover, we observe the occurrences of refactoring
specific terms such as ‘cleanup’, ‘get rid of’, and ‘remov* unused’.
   RQ2 indicates that developers tend to use limited textual patterns to docu-
ment their refactorings in the ‘Refactor’ branch compared to refactoring reviews
from other branches. These patterns can provide either (1) a generic description
of problems developers encounter or (2) a specific refactoring operation name
following Fowler’s names [83]. Although previous studies show that rename re-
factorings are a common type of refactoring, e.g., [84], we notice that ‘mov*’
and ‘extract*’ are also among the topmost documented refactorings in ‘Refactor’
branch and other branches. This can be explained by the fact that developers
tend to make many design improvement decisions, including remodularizing
packages by moving classes, reducing class-level coupling, and increasing cohe-
sion by moving methods. This information can provide valuable references for
the practice of refactoring documentation. For example, whether refactoring-
related reviews have relevant information is a critical indicator of the quality of
refactoring reviews.




                                        27
Table 4: Summary of refactoring patterns in ‘Refactor’ branch, clustered by refactoring related
categories.


              Internal QA (%)        External QA (%)          Code Smell (%)

              ‘Refactor’ branch

              Dependency (90.32%)    Compatibility (70%)      Dead Code (3.22%)
              Inheritance (3.22%)    Flexibility (20%)
              Abstraction (3.22%)    Performance (10%)
              Complexity (3.22%)

              Other branches

              Inheritance (30.43%)   Accessibility (35.63%)   Code duplication (79.16%)
              Dependency (30.43%)    Performance (24.13%)     Dead Code (10.41%)
              Coupling (19.56%)      Readability (18.39%)     Switch Statement (4.16%)
              Abstraction (10.86%)   Compatibility(6.89%)     Antipattern (4.16%)
              Complexity (6.52%)     Correctness (6.89%)      Data Class (2.08%)
              Composition (2.17%)    Modularity (2.29%)
                                     Stability (1.14%)
                                     Usability (1.14%)
                                     Flexibility (1.14%)
                                     Robustness (1.14%)
                                     Testability (1.14%)




    Summary. Within the ‘Refactor’ branch, developers tend to use fewer
    keywords in their documentation. This could be attributed to their spe-
    cialized knowledge and expertise in refactoring techniques, which might
    result in more precise and less confusing documentation for reviewers.


5.3. What quality attributes do developers consider when describing refactoring
      in the ‘Refactor’ branch?

Motivation. Various studies have explored the bad programming practices
that trigger refactoring and the potential quality attributes that are optimized
when restructuring the code. In this research question, we investigate whether
developers explicitly mention the purpose of their refactoring activity, e.g., im-
proving structural metrics to fix code smells. Knowing the quality attributes
prioritized by developers helps to understand their focus areas and can guide
the creation of better refactoring guidelines and tools.
Approach. After identifying refactoring documentation patterns, we categorize



                                                 28
the patterns into main categories (similar to previous studies [65, 66]): (1)
internal quality attributes, (2) external quality attributes, and (3) code smells.
Results.    Table 4 provides the list of refactoring documentation patterns,
ranked based on their frequency, which we identify in ‘Refactor’ branch and
other branches. We observe that developers mention key internal quality at-
tributes (such as ‘inheritance’, ‘complexity’, etc.), a few external quality attrib-
utes (such as ‘compatability’ and ‘performance’), and code smells (such as ‘dead
code’) that might impact code quality. To improve internal design, optimization
of the structure of the system with respect to its dependency and inheritance
appears to be the dominant focus, which is consistently mentioned in the review.
Concerning external quality attributes, we observe the mention of refactorings
to enhance nonfunctional attributes. Patterns such as ‘compatability’, ‘flexibil-
ity’, and ‘performance’ represent the the main focus in ‘Refactor’ branch, with
70%, 20%, and 10%, respectively. Finally, for code smells, developers mentioned
a few antipatterns such as ‘dead code’.
   From RQ3 , we observe that developers in the ‘Refactor’ branch tend to
provide less explicit documentation of their intent compared to other branches.
This could suggest that the ‘Refactor’ branch prioritizes higher code quality, al-
lowing reviewers to grasp the context and purpose of changes more easily even
without detailed documentation. For instance, developer discussed fixing design
issues by putting common functionalities into a superclass to eliminate duplic-
ate code, breaking up lengthier methods to make the code more readable, and
avoiding nested complex data structure to reduce code complexity. Moreover,
we observe that code smell is rarely documented in ‘Refactor’ branch with only
3.22%. Similarly, developers tend to report few external quality attributes,
focusing mainly on fixing compatability of the code.




                                        29
   Summary. Documentation of intent by developers is notably limited
   within the ‘Refactor’ branch when compared to other branches. How-
   ever, this observation may signify higher code quality within the ‘Re-
   factor’ branch, as changes are clearer and more understandable to re-
   viewers without explicit documentation. This suggests that developers in
   the ‘Refactor’ branch prioritize key quality attributes such as compatibil-
   ity, performance, complexity, and inheritance.


5.4. What topics do developers discuss when reviewing refactoring tasks?

Motivation. We pose this research question to develop a taxonomy of all re-
factoring contexts, where reviewers discuss refactoring in the ‘Refactor’ branch.
Analyzing discussion topics provides insights into the critical issues and con-
siderations during refactoring reviews, highlighting areas for potential improve-
ment.
Approach. To get a more qualitative sense, we manually inspect the Qt ecosys-
tem using a thematic analysis technique [76], to study the topics that reviewers
discuss when reviewing refactoring changes, so we understand the main reasons
for which refactoring reviews does not take shorter compared to non-refactoring
reviews or refactoring reviews from other branches.
Results. Upon analyzing the review discussions, we create a comprehensive
high-level categories of review criteria. Figure 7 shows the proposed taxonomy
of the criteria related to reviewing the refactored code. The taxonomy is com-
posed of two layers: The top layer contains 4 categories that group activities
with similar purposes, whereas the lower layer contains 12 subcategories that
essentially provide a fine-grained categorization. These refactoring review cri-
teria are centered on four main categories, as shown in the figure: (1) quality,
(2) refactoring, (3) objective, and (4) testing. It is worth noting that our cat-
egorization is not mutually exclusive, meaning that a review can be associated
with more than one category. An example of each category is provided in Table
5. In the rest of this subsection, we provide a more in-depth analysis of these


                                       30
                                  Refactoring Taxonomy in `Refactor' Branch




     Quality                           Refactoring                               Objective                     Testing




31
               Code smell                             Simplifying method calls               Feature support             Additional test suite



               Internal quality attribute             Method composition                     Bug fixing                  Auto-test fix



               External quality attribute             Features move                          Clean up                    Test file refactoring




                              Figure 7: Refactoring review criteria from ‘Refactor’ branch in modern code review.
categories.
Quality. The quality of design emerges as a crucial aspect of the refactoring
review process. As per the submitted reviews, developers delve into optimiz-
ing internal and external quality attributes while striving to avoid code smells.
They offer recommendations on coding practices and suggest ways to enhance
both internal and external quality attributes. This attention to detail is es-
sential because developers may not always grasp the full scope of the software
design. Additionally, developers often focus their refactoring efforts on classes
and methods that undergo frequent changes. This pattern is evident in the re-
views, where recurrent files are frequently mentioned. By repeatedly modifying
the same code elements, developers become more intimately acquainted with
the system, thereby enhancing their design decisions.
Refactoring. This category gathers reviews with a focus on evaluating the cor-
rectness of the code transformation and checking whether or not the submitted
changes lead to a safe and trustworthy refactoring. These refactoring reviews
discuss refactoring operation-related responses such as simplifying method calls,
method composition, and features move. As developers often interleave refact-
oring with other tasks, developers mentioned that combining refactoring with
other changes could potentially result in overshadowing errors, thus increasing
the likelihood of introducing bugs.
Objective. In this category, we have gathered cases where developers docu-
ment the feature-related, bug fix-related, and clean up-related activities to better
understand the rationale of the submitted code changes. This reveals how de-
velopers keep proposing areas of improvement pertaining to the perception and
the rationale of the change. It appears that the clarity of the documented
changes is of paramount importance in accepting the submitted refactoring
changes. We realized that the clarity of the explanation of what is being changed
and why affects review time and decision.
Testing. Refactoring is intended to maintain the behavior of the software.
Ideally, utilizing existing unit tests to confirm that the behavior remains un-
changed should suffice. However, refactoring tasks may sometimes be inter-


                                        32
leaved with other activities, leading to potential alterations in the software’s
behavior. In such cases, existing unit tests may not capture these changes
if they haven’t been revalidated to reflect the newly introduced functionality.
Upon analyzing these discussions, reviewers have proposed several recommend-
ations. They suggest incorporating unit tests before initiating the refactoring
process to instill greater confidence that the code remains intact. Additionally,
they recommend adding test cases when refactored code results in decreased
test coverage, such as when extracting new methods. Furthermore, when de-
velopers submit their changes for review, including the results of running the
tests can enhance transparency and provide assurance to reviewers. To encom-
pass these scenarios, we have identified the following sub-categories under the
Testing category: additional test suite, auto-test fix, and test file refactoring.
   Our taxonomy builds on and extends existing refactoring taxonomies by fo-
cusing specifically on the unique characteristics of the ‘Refactor’ branch. Unlike
general refactoring taxonomies that encompass a wide range of refactoring activ-
ities across various contexts, our taxonomy is designed to capture specific prac-
tices and challenges and review dynamics within a dedicated refactoring branch.
This taxonomy can be compared with existing ones in the literature, such as
those proposed by Pantiuchina et al. [46, 85] and Paixao et al. [43], which clas-
sify refactorings based on reasons for refactoring rejection and rationale in the
GitHub pull requests and Gerrit, respectively. For example, previous studies
found that lack of clear goals and poorly documented proposals are the main
causes of rejection after code review, while design improvement and test quality
are key motivations. Also, they found that non-explicit or mixed intent refact-
orings tend to have high interactivity during the review, observations we shared
when creating the taxonomy in the ‘Refactor’ branch.
   Unlike traditional taxonomies, ours is tailored to the unique context of the
‘Refactor’ branch, reflecting its specific practices and priorities. By focusing
on the ‘Refactor’ branch, the taxonomy provides a more granular and context-
specific understanding of refactoring practices. It offers insights into how branch
isolation and focused collaboration can streamline the review process, reduce


                                         33
review time, and improve code quality. These findings are particularly valuable
for organizations considering the adoption of dedicated refactoring branches as
a strategy to enhance their development workflows. The outcome of the survey
with a senior developer shows the existence of these types of review criteria in
the ‘Refactor’ branch.
   Furthermore, we conducted a manual analysis to identify the factors that
contribute to successful reviews in the refactoring branch compared to other
branches. These insights were drawn from developer documentation and our
observations of best practices. The following best practices were identified:
Focused Scope of Changes. Reviews in the ‘Refactor’ branch often involve
changes that are narrowly focused on improving code structure without alter-
ing functionality. This clear separation may help reviewers quickly grasp the
intent and impact of the changes. For example, in review ID 4058 (see Figure
6), the developer focused solely on renaming variables to improve code readab-
ility. The review had only two inline comments and was approved within 2.41,
demonstrating the efficiency of focused changes.
Clear and Concise Documentation. Reviews in the ‘Refactor’ branch often
include clear, concise documentation explaining the purpose of the refactoring,
the specific changes made, or the expected benefits. For instance, in review ID
1733 (see Figure 6), the developer provided a clear explanation of the purpose
of refactoring, and a succinct summary of the changes, which led to a smooth
review process with minimal comments.
Consistency with Coding Standards. Reviews in the ‘Refactor’ branch
often adhere to Gerrit Qt’s established coding standards and guidelines, making
it easier for reviewers to evaluate changes without debating style or format
issues. For example, we noticed in review ID 4058 (see Figure 6) that the
developer used Qt specific naming convention when naming classes.




                                       34
                                                                                                                                                             review.
     Category      Sub-category                 Example (Excerpts from a related refactoring review)

                   Code smell                   “Qt Creator: remove dead patching code We are using a VCS. No need to keep dead code.”
                                                “Checking in text control and editor classes what of those related attributes have exactly changed before
                   Internal quality attribute
     Quality                                    calling the update increases code complexity unnecessarily for a little benefit.”
                                                “This is simpler than the existing texture cache in QtOpenGL, as it only serves the GL paint engine.
                   External quality attribute
                                                There’s one per context group, to simplify the design and to prevent performance degradations.”
                                                “Refactor QMouseEvent to contain the position inside the window. Rename the default accessors for
                   Simplifying method calls
                                                positions to localPos, windowPos and screenPos, to be explicit about their use.”
                   Method composition           “Adding 10s delay after extracting 7z.”
     Refactoring
                                                “Add QtUiTools and uilib This code used to live in qtbase. It doesn’t belong there however and since
                   Feature move                 there are no dependencies in qtbase left that require it move it here. This significantly simplifies the build
                                                system with regards to the code in uilib.”
                                                “Restore feature compatibility with QPrinter in QTextDocument::print Add a margin method to QPaged-
                   Feature support




35
                                                PaintDevice.”
                                                “fix foundImportantUpdate and rename it to essential - there was bug that unselected updates are removed
                   Bug fixing                   in case there is an important update - to avoid the error with old installation we are renaming Important
     Objective
                                                tag to Essential which means the same but only works with this fix.”
                                                “Refactor the input framework Results of the ongoing workshop in Oslo: QInputPanel will be the ap-
                                                plication facing interface for controlling the input context as well as querying things like the position of
                   Clean up
                                                the virtual keyboard. QInputContext is significantly cleaned up and only there as a compatibility API for
                                                existing code.”
                   Additional test suite        “Added new QOpenGLPaintDevice test case in tst QOpenGL.”
                   Auto-test fix                “Fixed auto-test failure in tst QOpenGL. QOpenGLFramebufferObject::height() was returning the width.”
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      new issues and that the improved code performs as expected.




     Testing
                                                “Move tests to more logical positions. Before, all the auto tests were jumbled together in a huge mess in
                   Test file refactoring        tests/auto, now they are organized after which module/submodule/class they belong to. I have also started
                                                separating out unit tests from integration tests.”
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    testing practices to verify that the refactoring changes do not introduce
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                the objectives of the refactoring task, and there is a focus on rigorous
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           efforts adhere to the coding standards, discussions center on clarifying
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      developers actively engage in conversations to ensure that the refactoring
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   around topics related to code quality, objectives and testing. In particular,
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   Summary. Discussions within the ‘Refactor’ branch primarily revolve




                                                                                                                                                                       Table 5: A taxonomy of the refactoring review criteria from ‘Refactor’ branch in modern code
6. Implications

6.1. Implications for Practitioners

   Establishing continuous improvement culture for refactoring-related
reviews. Our RQ1 findings show that developers are more inclined to accept re-
factoring changes quickly in the refactoring branch compared to the refactoring
changes in other branches or to the non-refactoring changes. To emphasize the
value of refactoring changes, managers can cultivate a culture by prioritizing
continuous improvement and investing in refactoring. Therefore, establishing
guidelines for submitting refactoring changes for review can be beneficial. For
instance, refactoring branches should involve smaller, focused changes aimed at
improving specific areas of the code. Moreover, these branches should emphasize
the improvement of software quality, aligning with the shared goal among de-
velopers. It is essential for refactoring branches to clearly document the primary
goals of the proposed changes. Additionally, thorough code reviews and testing
should be conducted to ensure adherence to best practices and to prevent the
introduction of regressions or breaking existing functionality. In summary, the
recommended checklists are as follows:


Guidelines for Submitting Refactoring Changes to the ‘Refactor’ Branch

  □ Nature of Changes:

        ✓ Are the changes primarily focused on improving the structure, read-
           ability, or maintainability of the code without altering its external
           behavior?

        ✓ Do the changes involve renaming variables, methods, or classes to
           improve clarity?

        ✓ Are the changes aimed at reducing technical debt by simplifying com-
           plex code or removing redundancies?

  □ Scope of Changes:


                                       36
      ✓ Do the changes impact multiple files or modules, indicating a broader
         structural improvement?

      ✓ Are the changes part of a planned refactoring effort as outlined in
         the project’s roadmap or guidelines?

  □ Documentation and Communication:

      ✓ Have you documented the intent, instruction, impact, and scope of
         the refactoring changes in the commit message or accompanying doc-
         umentation?

      ✓ Have you communicated with the team about the planned refactoring
         and received approval to proceed with the changes?

  □ Testing and Validation:

      ✓ Have you ensured that all existing tests pass after the refactoring
         changes?

      ✓ Have you added or updated tests to cover the refactored code, ensur-
         ing no functionality is broken?

  □ Review Process:

      ✓ Have you considered the feedback from previous refactoring reviews
         and incorporated best practices into your changes?


Guidelines for Submitting Changes to the Main Branch

  □ Functional Changes:

      ✓ Are the changes introducing new features, fixing bugs, or modifying
         the external behavior of the application?

      ✓ Do the changes involve implementing new functionality or altering
         existing functionality to meet new requirements?

  □ Isolated Updates:


                                    37
        ✓ Are the changes isolated to a single file or a small set of related files?

        ✓ Do the changes address a specific issue or feature request without
           requiring broader structural modifications?

By following these checklists, developers can make informed decisions about
where to submit their changes, ensuring that the refactoring branch is used
appropriately for structural improvements while functional changes are directed
to the main branch. We believe this approach can enhance the clarity and
effectiveness of the development process, benefiting both individual developers
and the overall project. It is worth noting that this checklist has been validated
by an external developer for its relevance and completeness. However, we plan
to apply this checklist in practice to further assess its applicability and impact
in real-world scenarios.
   Establishing guidelines for refactoring-related reviews. Our tax-
onomy shows that reviewing refactoring goes beyond improving the code struc-
ture. To improve the practice of reviewing refactored code, and contribute to
the quality of reviewing code in general, managers can collaboratively work with
developers to establish customized guidelines for reviewing refactoring changes
which could establish beneficial and long-lasting habits or themes to accelerate
the process of reviewing refactoring. Additionally, since our RQ4 findings show
that testing is one of the topics discussed by developers when reviewing refact-
oring changes, it is recommended to utilize continuous integration to keep the
testing suite in sync with the code base during and after refactoring.


6.2. Implications for Researchers

   Understanding how refactoring changes in the ‘Refactor’ branch
tend to be reviewed. From RQ1 , we observe that they refactoring changes
in the ‘Refactor’ branch are completed in a shorter timeframe compared to
changes from other branches and non-refactoring changes. Researchers should
further investigate the underlying reasons why refactoring changes in the ‘Re-
factor’ branch tend to be reviewed more efficiently compared to changes from


                                        38
other branches. Understanding the factors contributing to this efficiency, such
as branch isolation, developer expertise, or collaboration dynamics, can provide
valuable information on optimizing code review processes and enhancing soft-
ware quality in development environments where refactoring is a common prac-
tice. Furthermore, exploring the impact of streamlined refactoring review prac-
tices on code quality, developer productivity, and overall project success could
offer practical guidance for software development teams aiming to improve their
refactoring workflows.
   Supporting for the refactoring of non-source code artifacts. From
RQ4 , we discover that refactoring operations are not limited to source code
files. Artifacts such as databases and log files are also susceptible to refactoring.
Similarly, we also observed discussions about refactoring test files. While it can
be argued that test suites are source code files, recent studies [46, 66] show that
the types of refactoring operations applied to test files are frequently different
from those applied to production files. Hence, future research on refactoring
is encouraged to introduce refactoring mechanisms and techniques exclusively
geared to refactoring non source code artifact types and test suites.


6.3. Implications for Tool Builders

   Developing next generation refactoring-related code review tools.
Finding that reviewing refactoring changes from other branches takes longer
than non-refactoring changes reaffirms the necessity of developing accurate and
efficient tools and techniques that can assist developers in the review process in
the presence of refactorings. Refactoring toolset should be treated in the same
way as CI/CD tool set and integrated into the tool-chain. Researchers could
use our findings with other empirical investigations of refactoring to define,
validate, and develop a scheme to build automated assistance for reviewing
refactoring considering the refactoring review criteria as review code becomes
an easier process if the code review dashboard augmented with the factors to
offer suggestions to better document the review.
   Furthermore, to accelerate the code review process and limit having a back-


                                         39
and-forth discussion for clarity on the problem faced by the developer, tool
builders can develop bots for the integration, testing, and management categor-
ies. Additionally, it would be interesting to use a popular and widely adopted
quality framework, e.g., Quality Gate of SonarQube [86], as part of the quality
verification process by embedding its results in the code review. This might
facilitate convincing the reviewer about the impact and the correctness of the
performed refactoring.


7. Threats To Validity

   In this section, we describe potential threats to validity of our research
method, and the actions we took to mitigate them.
   Internal Validity. Concerning the identification of refactoring-related code
review, we select reviews from a dedicated ‘Refactor’ branch. As for the other
group of refactoring reviews, we analyze reviews with the keyword ‘refactor* ’ in
their title and description. Such selection criteria may have resulted in missing
refactoring-related reviews, and there is the possibility that we may have ex-
cluded synonymous terms/phrases. However, even though this approach reduces
the number of reviews in our dataset, it also decreases the false positiveness of
our selection. While our data collection may result in missing some reviews,
our approach ensures that we analyze reviews that are explicitly geared toward
refactoring. In other words, these are reviews where developers were explicitly
documenting a refactoring action and they wanted it to be reviewed. Addition-
ally, after performing the manual inspection on review discussions, we realized
that refactoring is heavily emphasized in discussions that start with a title or a
description containing the keyword ‘refactor* ’. Yet, this does not prevent other
discussions from bringing refactoring into the picture, and these will be missed
by our selection (i.e., false negatives). Hence, we excluded potential refactoring
synonymous terms/phrases when selecting non-refactoring reviews. We opted
for such picky selection to only consider discussions when code authors expli-
citly wanted their refactored code to be reviewed, and so reviewers eventually


                                       40
propose a refactoring-aware feedback, which is what we are aiming for in this
study. Therefore, it is interesting to consider scenarios where reviewers have
raised concerns about refactoring a code change that was not intended to be as-
sociated with the ‘Refactor’ branch. Since refactoring can easily be interleaved
with other functional changes, it would be interesting to extract scenarios where
reviewers thought it was misused. The study can also help developers better
understand not only how to refactor their code, but also how to document it
properly for easier review.
   Furthermore, we focus on the code review activity that is reported by the
tool-based code review process, i.e., Gerrit, of the systems studied due to the
fact that other communication media (e.g., in-person discussion [22], a group
IRC [87], or a mailing list [88]) do not have explicit links to code changes and
recovering these links is a daunting task [55, 89].
   Construct Validity. About the representativeness and the correctness of
our refactoring review criteria, we derive these criteria from a manual analysis
of refactoring-related reviews. This approach may not cover the whole spectrum
of all the review criteria done with refactoring in mind. Additionally, to avoid
personal bias during the manual analysis, each step in the manual analysis was
conducted twice, and the results were always cross-validated. Another poten-
tial threat to validity relates to refactoring reviews. Since refactorings could
interleave with other changes [90] (i.e., developers performed changes together
with refactorings), we cannot claim that the selected refactoring reviews are
exclusively related to refactoring. However, during our qualitative analysis, we
identified this activity as one of the challenges that contributed to slowing down
the review process from other branches.
   External Validity. We focus our study on one open-source system due to
the low number of systems that satisfied our eligibility criteria (see Section 4).
Therefore, our results may not be generalized to all other open-source systems
or commercially developed projects. However, the goal of this paper is not to
build a theory that applies to all systems, but rather to show that refactoring
can have an impact on code review process. Another potential threat relates to


                                        41
the proposed taxonomy. Our taxonomy may not generalize to other open source
or commercial projects since the refactoring review criteria may be different for
another set of projects (e.g., outside the Qt community). Consequently, we
cannot claim that the results of refactoring review criteria (see Figure 7) can be
generalized to other software systems where the need for improving the design
might be less important.
   Conclusion Validity. To compare the two groups of code review requests,
we used appropriate statistical procedures with p-value and effect size measures
to test the significance of the differences and their magnitude. A statistical
test was implemented to measure the significance of the observed differences
between group values. This test makes no assumption that the data are normally
distributed. Also, it assumes the independence of the groups under comparison.
We cannot verify whether code review requests are completely independent, as
some can be re-opened, or one large code change can be treated using several
requests. To mitigate this, we verified all the reviews we sampled for the test.


8. Conclusion

   Understanding the practice of refactoring code review holds significant im-
portance for both the research community and industry. Despite the widespread
adoption of modern code review practices in open-source and industrial projects,
the correlation between code review and refactoring practices in the ‘Refactor’
branch remains largely unexplored. In our study, we conducted a comprehensive
quantitative and qualitative analysis to investigate the review criteria discussed
by the developers during the review of refactorings. Our findings highlight sev-
eral key points: refactoring changes in the ‘Refactor’ branch are completed in a
shorter timeframe compared to changes from other branches and non-refactoring
changes; documentation of developer intent within the ‘Refactor’ branch is lim-
ited in comparison to other branches; and developers rely on a specific set of
criteria to guide their decisions regarding the acceptance or rejection of submit-
ted refactoring changes.


                                       42
   For future work, we plan on conducting a structured survey with software
developers from both open-source and industry. The survey will explore their
general and specific review criteria when performing refactoring activities in
code review. This survey will complement and validate our current study to
provide the software engineering community with a more comprehensive view of
refactoring practices in the context of modern code review. Another interesting
research direction is to link refactoring-related reviews to refactoring detection
tools such as Refactoring Miner [17] or RefDiff [91] to better understand the
impact of these reviews on refactoring types specifically.
Declaration of generative AI and AI-assisted technologies in the writ-
ing process.
   During the preparation of this work, the author used the ChatGPT Web
interface to improve the language and readability of some sections such as the
checklists. After using this tool, the author reviewed and edited the content as
needed and takes full responsibility for the content of the publication.


References

 [1] C. Abid, V. Alizadeh, M. Kessentini, T. do Nascimento Ferreira, D. Dig, 30
    years of software refactoring research:a systematic literature review (2020).
    arXiv:2007.02194.

 [2] A. Bacchelli, C. Bird, Expectations, outcomes, and challenges of modern
    code review, in: International conference on software engineering, 2013, pp.
    712–721.

 [3] C. Sadowski, E. Söderberg, L. Church, M. Sipko, A. Bacchelli, Modern code
    review: a case study at google, in: International Conference on Software
    Engineering: Software Engineering in Practice, 2018, pp. 181–190.

 [4] Y. Kashiwa, R. Nishikawa, Y. Kamei, M. Kondo, E. Shihab, R. Sato,
    N. Ubayashi, An empirical study on self-admitted technical debt in modern
    code review, Information and Software Technology 146 (2022) 106855.


                                       43
 [5] S. McIntosh, Y. Kamei, B. Adams, A. E. Hassan, An empirical study of
    the impact of modern code review practices on software quality, Empirical
    Software Engineering 21 (5) (2016) 2146–2189.

 [6] X. Yang, R. G. Kula, N. Yoshida, H. Iida, Mining the modern code review
    repositories: A dataset of people, process and product, in: Proceedings of
    the 13th International Conference on Mining Software Repositories, 2016,
    pp. 460–463.

 [7] O. Hamdi, A. Ouni, E. A. AlOmar, M. O. Cinnéide, M. W. Mkaouer, An
    empirical study on the impact of refactoring on quality metrics in android
    applications (2021) 28–39.

 [8] E. A. AlOmar, M. W. Mkaouer, A. Ouni, M. Kessentini, On the impact of
    refactoring on the relationship between quality attributes and design met-
    rics, in: 2019 ACM/IEEE International Symposium on Empirical Software
    Engineering and Measurement (ESEM), IEEE, 2019, pp. 1–11.

 [9] O. Hamdi, A. Ouni, M. Ó. Cinnéide, M. W. Mkaouer, A longitudinal study
    of the impact of refactoring in android applications, Information and Soft-
    ware Technology 140 (2021) 106699.

[10] A. Peruma, C. D. Newman, M. W. Mkaouer, A. Ouni, F. Palomba, An
    exploratory study on the refactoring of unit test files in android applica-
    tions, in: Proceedings of the IEEE/ACM 42nd International Conference on
    Software Engineering Workshops, 2020, pp. 350–357.

[11] G. Bavota, B. De Carluccio, A. De Lucia, M. Di Penta, R. Oliveto,
    O. Strollo, When does a refactoring induce bugs? an empirical study, in:
    IEEE 12th International Working Conference on Source Code Analysis and
    Manipulation, 2012, pp. 104–113.

[12] M. Di Penta, G. Bavota, F. Zampetti, On the relationship between refact-
    oring actions and bugs: a differentiated replication, in: Proceedings of the
    28th ACM Joint Meeting on European Software Engineering Conference


                                       44
    and Symposium on the Foundations of Software Engineering, 2020, pp.
    556–567.

[13] E. A. AlOmar, H. AlRubaye, M. W. Mkaouer, A. Ouni, M. Kessentini,
    Refactoring practices in the context of modern code review: An industrial
    case study at xerox, in: 2021 IEEE/ACM 43rd International Conference
    on Software Engineering: Software Engineering in Practice (ICSE-SEIP),
    IEEE, 2021, pp. 348–357.

[14] N. Tsantalis, T. Chaikalis, A. Chatzigeorgiou, Jdeodorant: Identification
    and removal of type-checking bad smells, in: 2008 12th European Confer-
    ence on Software Maintenance and Reengineering, IEEE, 2008, pp. 329–331.

[15] W. Mkaouer, M. Kessentini, A. Shaout, P. Koligheu, S. Bechikh, K. Deb,
    A. Ouni, Many-objective software remodularization using nsga-iii, ACM
    Transactions on Software Engineering and Methodology (TOSEM) 24 (3)
    (2015) 1–45.

[16] A. Ouni, M. Kessentini, H. Sahraoui, K. Inoue, K. Deb, Multi-criteria
    code refactoring using search-based software engineering: An industrial
    case study, ACM Transactions on Software Engineering and Methodology
    (TOSEM) 25 (3) (2016) 23.

[17] N. Tsantalis, M. Mansouri, L. Eshkevari, D. Mazinanian, D. Dig, Accurate
    and efficient refactoring detection in commit history, in: 2018 IEEE/ACM
    40th International Conference on Software Engineering (ICSE), IEEE,
    2018, pp. 483–494.

[18] https://codereview.qt-project.org/c/qt/qtbase/+/4058.

[19] https://codereview.qt-project.org/c/qt/qtbase/+/215219.

[20] E. A. AlOmar, M. Chouchen, M. W. Mkaouer, A. Ouni, Code review prac-
    tices for refactoring changes: An empirical study on openstack, in: Proceed-
    ings of the 19th international conference on mining software repositories,
    2022, pp. 689–701.


                                      45
[21] https://smilevo.github.io/self-affirmed-refactoring/.

[22] M. Beller, A. Bacchelli, A. Zaidman, E. Juergens, Modern code reviews
    in open-source projects: Which problems do they fix?, in: Proceedings
    of the 11th working conference on mining software repositories, 2014, pp.
    202–211.

[23] L. G. Votta Jr, Does every inspection need a meeting?, in: Proceedings of
    the 1st ACM SIGSOFT Symposium on Foundations of Software Engineer-
    ing, 1993, pp. 107–114.

[24] P. C. Rigby, C. Bird, Convergent contemporary software peer review prac-
    tices, in: Proceedings of the 2013 9th Joint Meeting on Foundations of
    Software Engineering, ACM, 2013, pp. 202–212.

[25] S. McIntosh, Y. Kamei, B. Adams, A. E. Hassan, The impact of code
    review coverage and code review participation on software quality: A case
    study of the qt, vtk, and itk projects, in: Working Conference on Mining
    Software Repositories, 2014, pp. 192–201.

[26] P. Thongtanunam, X. Yang, N. Yoshida, R. G. Kula, A. E. C. Cruz, K. Fuji-
    wara, H. Iida, Reda: A web-based visualization tool for analyzing modern
    code review dataset, in: 2014 IEEE International Conference on Software
    Maintenance and Evolution, IEEE, 2014, pp. 605–608.

[27] R. G. Kula, A. E. C. Cruz, N. Yoshida, K. Hamasaki, K. Fujiwara, X. Yang,
    H. Iida, Using profiling metrics to categorise peer review types in the an-
    droid project, in: 2012 IEEE 23rd International Symposium on Software
    Reliability Engineering Workshops, IEEE, 2012, pp. 146–151.

[28] X. Ge, S. Sarkar, E. Murphy-Hill, Towards refactoring-aware code review,
    in: International Workshop on Cooperative and Human Aspects of Software
    Engineering, 2014, pp. 99–102.




                                     46
[29] X. Ge, S. Sarkar, J. Witschey, E. Murphy-Hill, Refactoring-aware code
    review, in: IEEE Symposium on Visual Languages and Human-Centric
    Computing (VL/HCC), 2017, pp. 71–79.

[30] R. Morales, S. McIntosh, F. Khomh, Do code review practices impact
    design quality? a case study of the qt, vtk, and itk projects, in: Inter-
    national Conference on Software Analysis, Evolution, and Reengineering
    (SANER), 2015, pp. 171–180.

[31] M. Barnett, C. Bird, J. Brunet, S. K. Lahiri, Helping developers help them-
    selves: Automatic decomposition of code review changesets, in: Interna-
    tional Conference on Software Engineering-Volume 1, 2015, pp. 134–144.

[32] Y. Tao, S. Kim, Partitioning composite code changes to facilitate code
    review, in: Working Conference on Mining Software Repositories, 2015,
    pp. 180–190.

[33] T. Zhang, M. Song, J. Pinedo, M. Kim, Interactive code review for system-
    atic changes, in: International Conference on Software Engineering-Volume
    1, 2015, pp. 111–122.

[34] E. L. Alves, M. Song, T. Massoni, P. D. Machado, M. Kim, Refactor-
    ing inspection support for manual refactoring edits, IEEE Transactions on
    Software Engineering 44 (4) (2017) 365–383.

[35] A. Peruma, S. Simmons, E. A. AlOmar, C. D. Newman, M. W. Mkaouer,
    A. Ouni, How do i refactor this? an empirical study on refactoring trends
    and topics in stack overflow, Empirical Software Engineering 27 (1) (2022)
    1–43.

[36] Y. Tao, Y. Dang, T. Xie, D. Zhang, S. Kim, How do software engineers
    understand code changes?: an exploratory study in industry, in: ACM
    SIGSOFT 20th International Symposium on the Foundations of Software
    Engineering, 2012, p. 51.



                                      47
[37] L. MacLeod, M. Greiler, M.-A. Storey, C. Bird, J. Czerwonka, Code review-
    ing in the trenches: Challenges and best practices, IEEE Software 35 (4)
    (2017) 34–42.

[38] B. Guo, M. Song, Interactively decomposing composite changes to support
    code review and regression testing, in: Annual Computer Software and
    Applications Conference (COMPSAC), Vol. 1, 2017, pp. 118–127.

[39] A. Peruma, M. W. Mkaouer, M. J. Decker, C. D. Newman, Contextualizing
    rename decisions using refactorings and commit messages, in: 2019 19th
    International Working Conference on Source Code Analysis and Manipu-
    lation (SCAM), IEEE, 2019, pp. 74–85.

[40] E. L. Alves, M. Song, M. Kim, Refdistiller: a refactoring aware code re-
    view tool for inspecting manual refactoring edits, in: ACM SIGSOFT In-
    ternational Symposium on Foundations of Software Engineering, 2014, pp.
    751–754.

[41] F. Coelho, T. Massoni, E. L. Alves, Refactoring-aware code review: a sys-
    tematic mapping study, in: International Workshop on Refactoring, 2019,
    pp. 63–66.

[42] L. Pascarella, D. Spadini, F. Palomba, M. Bruntink, A. Bacchelli, Inform-
    ation needs in contemporary code review, Proceedings of the ACM on
    Human-Computer Interaction 2 (CSCW) (2018) 135.

[43] M. Paixão, A. Uchôa, A. C. Bibiano, D. Oliveira, A. Garcia, J. Krinke,
    E. Arvonio, Behind the intents: An in-depth empirical study on software
    refactoring in modern code review, in: Proceedings of the 17th Interna-
    tional Conference on Mining Software Repositories, 2020, pp. 125–136.

[44] A. Uchôa, C. Barbosa, W. Oizumi, P. Blenı́lio, R. Lima, A. Garcia,
    C. Bezerra, How does modern code review impact software design degrada-
    tion? an in-depth empirical study, in: 2020 IEEE International Conference



                                     48
    on Software Maintenance and Evolution (ICSME), IEEE, 2020, pp. 511–
    522.

[45] A. Uchôa, C. Barbosa, D. Coutinho, W. Oizumi, W. K. Assunçao, S. R.
    Vergilio, J. A. Pereira, A. Oliveira, A. Garcia, Predicting design impactful
    changes in modern code review: A large-scale empirical study, in: 2021
    IEEE/ACM 18th International Conference on Mining Software Repositor-
    ies (MSR), IEEE, 2021, pp. 471–482.

[46] J. Pantiuchina, F. Zampetti, S. Scalabrino, V. Piantadosi, R. Oliveto,
    G. Bavota, M. D. Penta, Why developers refactor source code: A mining-
    based study, ACM Transactions on Software Engineering and Methodology
    (TOSEM) 29 (4) (2020) 1–30.

[47] F. Coelho, N. Tsantalis, T. Massoni, E. L. Alves, An empirical study on
    refactoring-inducing pull requests, in: Proceedings of the 15th ACM/IEEE
    International Symposium on Empirical Software Engineering and Measure-
    ment (ESEM), 2021, pp. 1–12.

[48] A. Brito, A. Hora, M. T. Valente, Refactoring graphs: Assessing refactoring
    over time, arXiv preprint arXiv:2003.04666.

[49] D. Silva, J. Silva, G. J. D. S. Santos, R. Terra, M. T. O. Valente, Refdiff
    2.0: A multi-language refactoring detection tool, IEEE Transactions on
    Software Engineering.

[50] Z. Kurbatova, V. Kovalenko, I. Savu, B. Brockbernd, D. Andreescu,
    M. Anton, R. Venediktov, E. Tikhomirova, T. Bryksin, Refactorinsight:
    Enhancing ide representation of changes in git with refactorings informa-
    tion, arXiv preprint arXiv:2108.11202.

[51] P. Thongtanunam, C. Tantithamthavorn, R. G. Kula, N. Yoshida, H. Iida,
    K.-i. Matsumoto, Who should review my code? a file location-based code-
    reviewer recommendation approach for modern code review, in: 2015 IEEE



                                      49
    22nd International Conference on Software Analysis, Evolution, and Reen-
    gineering (SANER), IEEE, 2015, pp. 141–150.

[52] X. Zhang, Y. Chen, Y. Gu, W. Zou, X. Xie, X. Jia, J. Xuan, How do
    multiple pull requests change the same code: A study of competing pull
    requests in github, in: 2018 IEEE International Conference on Software
    Maintenance and Evolution (ICSME), IEEE, 2018, pp. 228–239.

[53] P. Runeson, M. Höst, Guidelines for conducting and reporting case study
    research in software engineering, Empirical software engineering 14 (2)
    (2009) 131–164.

[54] P. Thongtanunam, S. McIntosh, A. E. Hassan, H. Iida, Investigating code
    review practices in defective files: An empirical study of the qt system, in:
    2015 IEEE/ACM 12th Working Conference on Mining Software Reposit-
    ories, IEEE, 2015, pp. 168–179.

[55] P. Thongtanunam, S. McIntosh, A. E. Hassan, H. Iida, Revisiting code
    ownership and its relationship with software quality in the scope of mod-
    ern code review, in: Proceedings of the 38th international conference on
    software engineering, 2016, pp. 1039–1050.

[56] P. Thongtanunam, A. E. Hassan, Review dynamics and their impact on
    software quality, IEEE Transactions on Software Engineering.

[57] A. Ouni, R. G. Kula, K. Inoue, Search-based peer reviewers recommend-
    ation in modern code review, in: 2016 IEEE International Conference on
    Software Maintenance and Evolution (ICSME), IEEE, 2016, pp. 367–377.

[58] Y. Fan, X. Xia, D. Lo, S. Li, Early prediction of merged code changes to
    prioritize reviewing tasks, Empirical Software Engineering 23 (6) (2018)
    3346–3393.

[59] M. Chouchen, A. Ouni, M. W. Mkaouer, R. G. Kula, K. Inoue, Whoreview:
    A multi-objective search-based approach for code reviewers recommenda-
    tion in modern code review, Applied Soft Computing 100 (2021) 106908.


                                      50
[60] S. Kim, E. J. Whitehead, Y. Zhang, Classifying software changes: Clean or
    buggy?, IEEE Transactions on software engineering 34 (2) (2008) 181–196.

[61] Y. Kamei, E. Shihab, B. Adams, A. E. Hassan, A. Mockus, A. Sinha,
    N. Ubayashi, A large-scale empirical study of just-in-time quality assurance,
    IEEE Transactions on Software Engineering 39 (6) (2012) 757–773.

[62] A. Mockus, L. G. Votta, Identifying reasons for software changes using
    historic databases., in: icsm, 2000, pp. 120–130.

[63] A. E. Hassan, Automated classification of change messages in open source
    projects, in: Proceedings of the 2008 ACM symposium on Applied com-
    puting, 2008, pp. 837–841.

[64] J. Ratzinger, T. Sigmund, H. C. Gall, On the relation of refactorings and
    software defect prediction, in: Proceedings of the 2008 International Work-
    ing Conference on Mining Software Repositories, MSR ’08, ACM, New
    York, NY, USA, 2008, pp. 35–38. doi:10.1145/1370750.1370759.
    URL http://doi.acm.org/10.1145/1370750.1370759

[65] E. A. AlOmar, M. W. Mkaouer, A. Ouni, Can refactoring be self-affirmed?
    an exploratory study on how developers document their refactoring activ-
    ities in commit messages, in: International Workshop on Refactoring-
    accepted. IEEE, 2019.

[66] E. A. AlOmar, A. Peruma, M. W. Mkaouer, C. Newman, A. Ouni, M. Kes-
    sentini, How we refactor and how we document it? on the use of supervised
    machine learning algorithms to classify refactoring documentation, Expert
    Systems with Applications 167 (2021) 114176.

[67] K. Stroggylos, D. Spinellis, Refactoring–does it improve software quality?,
    in: Fifth International Workshop on Software Quality (WoSQ’07: ICSE
    Workshops 2007), IEEE, 2007, pp. 10–10.

[68] Y. Tang, R. Khatchadourian, M. Bagherzadeh, R. Singh, A. Stewart,
    A. Raja, An empirical study of refactorings and technical debt in machine


                                      51
    learning systems, in: 2021 IEEE/ACM 43rd International Conference on
    Software Engineering (ICSE), IEEE, 2021, pp. 238–250.

[69] E. A. AlOmar, J. Liu, K. Addo, M. W. Mkaouer, C. Newman, A. Ouni,
    Z. Yu, On the documentation of refactoring types, Automated Software
    Engineering 29 (1) (2022) 1–40.

[70] D. Zhang, B. Li, Z. Li, P. Liang, A preliminary investigation of self-
    admitted refactorings in open source software, 2018.        doi:10.18293/
    SEKE2018-081.

[71] D. Taeger, S. Kuhnt, Statistical hypothesis testing with SAS and R, John
    Wiley & Sons, 2014.

[72] W. J. Conover, Practical nonparametric statistics, Vol. 350, John Wiley &
    Sons, 1998.

[73] N. Cliff, Dominance statistics: Ordinal analyses to answer ordinal ques-
    tions, Psychological Bulletin 114 (3) (1993) 494.

[74] J. Romano, J. Kromrey, J. Coraggio, J. Skowronek, Appropriate statistics
    for ordinal level data, in: Proceedings of the Annual Meeting of the Florida
    Association of Institutional Research, 2006, pp. 1–3.

[75] C. Wissler, The spearman correlation formula, Science 22 (558) (1905)
    309–311.

[76] D. S. Cruzes, T. Dyba, Recommended steps for thematic synthesis in soft-
    ware engineering, in: 2011 international symposium on empirical software
    engineering and measurement, IEEE, 2011, pp. 275–284.

[77] D. Silva, N. Tsantalis, M. T. Valente, Why we refactor? confessions of
    github contributors, in: Proceedings of the 2016 24th ACM SIGSOFT In-
    ternational Symposium on Foundations of Software Engineering, FSE 2016,
    ACM, New York, NY, USA, 2016, pp. 858–870. doi:10.1145/2950290.



                                      52
    2950305.
    URL http://doi.acm.org/10.1145/2950290.2950305

[78] L. Pascarella, F.-X. Geiger, F. Palomba, D. Di Nucci, I. Malavolta, A. Bac-
    chelli, Self-reported activities of android developers, in: 2018 IEEE/ACM
    5th International Conference on Mobile Software Engineering and Systems
    (MOBILESoft), IEEE, 2018, pp. 144–155.

[79] E. Doğan, E. Tüzün, Towards a taxonomy of code review smells, Informa-
    tion and Software Technology 142 (2022) 106737.

[80] K. L. Clarkson, P. W. Shor, Applications of random sampling in compu-
    tational geometry, ii, Discrete & Computational Geometry 4 (5) (1989)
    387–421.

[81] P. Hegedűs, I. Kádár, R. Ferenc, T. Gyimóthy, Empirical evaluation of
    software maintainability based on a manually validated refactoring dataset,
    Information and Software Technology 95 (2018) 313–327.

[82] M. Paixao, J. Krinke, D. Han, C. Ragkhitwetsagul, M. Harman, The impact
    of code review on architectural changes, IEEE Transactions on Software
    Engineering.

[83] M. Fowler, K. Beck, J. Brant, W. Opdyke, d. Roberts, Refactoring: Im-
    proving the Design of Existing Code, Addison-Wesley Longman Publishing
    Co., Inc., Boston, MA, USA, 1999.
    URL http://dl.acm.org/citation.cfm?id=311424

[84] E. A. AlOmar, A. Peruma, M. W. Mkaouer, C. D. Newman, A. Ouni,
    An exploratory study on refactoring documentation in issues handling, in:
    Proceedings of the 19th International Conference on Mining Software Re-
    positories, 2022, pp. 107–111.

[85] J. Pantiuchina, B. Lin, F. Zampetti, M. Di Penta, M. Lanza, G. Ba-
    vota, Why do developers reject refactorings in open-source projects?, ACM


                                      53
    Transactions on Software Engineering and Methodology (TOSEM) 31 (2)
    (2021) 1–23.

[86] O. Gaudin, Continuous Inspection A Paradigm Shift in Software Quality
    Management, 3rd Edition, Vol. 4 of 10, SonarSource, 2013.

[87] E. Shihab, Z. M. Jiang, A. E. Hassan, Studying the use of developer irc
    meetings in open source projects, in: 2009 IEEE International Conference
    on Software Maintenance, IEEE, 2009, pp. 147–156.

[88] P. C. Rigby, M.-A. Storey, Understanding broadcast based peer review on
    open source software projects, in: 2011 33rd International Conference on
    Software Engineering (ICSE), IEEE, 2011, pp. 541–550.

[89] A. Bacchelli, M. Lanza, R. Robbes, Linking e-mails and source code arti-
    facts, in: Proceedings of the 32nd ACM/IEEE International Conference on
    Software Engineering-Volume 1, 2010, pp. 375–384.

[90] E. Murphy-Hill, C. Parnin, A. P. Black, How we refactor, and how we
    know it, IEEE Transactions on Software Engineering 38 (1) (2012) 5–18.
    doi:10.1109/TSE.2011.41.

[91] D. Silva, M. T. Valente, Refdiff: detecting refactorings in version histories,
    in: 2017 IEEE/ACM 14th International Conference on Mining Software
    Repositories (MSR), IEEE, 2017, pp. 269–279.




                                        54
