                                         Accountability in Code Review: The Role of Intrinsic Drivers
                                         and the Impact of LLMs
                                         ADAM ALAMI, The University of Southern Denmark, Denmark
                                         VICTOR VADMAND JENSEN, Aarhus University, Denmark
arXiv:2502.15963v1 [cs.SE] 21 Feb 2025




                                         NEIL A. ERNST, University of Victoria, Canada
                                         Accountability is an innate part of social systems. It maintains stability and ensures positive pressure on
                                         individuals’ decision-making. As actors in a social system, software developers are accountable to their team and
                                         organization for their decisions. However, the drivers of accountability and how it changes behavior in software
                                         development are less understood. In this study, we look at how the social aspects of code review affect software
                                         engineers’ sense of accountability for code quality. Since software engineering (SE) is increasingly involving
                                         Large Language Models (LLM) assistance, we also evaluate the impact on accountability when introducing LLM-
                                         assisted code reviews. We carried out a two-phased sequential qualitative study (interviews → focus groups).
                                         In Phase I (16 interviews), we sought to investigate the intrinsic drivers of software engineers influencing
                                         their sense of accountability for code quality, relying on self-reported claims. In Phase II, we tested these traits
                                         in a more natural setting by simulating traditional peer-led reviews with focus groups and then LLM-assisted
                                         review sessions. We found that there are four key intrinsic drivers of accountability for code quality: personal
                                         standards, professional integrity, pride in code quality, and maintaining one’s reputation. In a traditional peer-led
                                         review, we observed a transition from individual to collective accountability when code reviews are initiated.
                                         We also found that the introduction of LLM-assisted reviews disrupts this accountability process, challenging
                                         the reciprocity of accountability taking place in peer-led evaluations, i.e., one cannot be accountable to an
                                         LLM. Our findings imply that the introduction of AI into SE must preserve social integrity and collective
                                         accountability mechanisms.
                                         CCS Concepts: • Software and its engineering → Programming teams.
                                         Additional Key Words and Phrases: Code quality, Accountability, Artificial Intelligence, Large Language
                                         Models, LLM, Code Review, Human and Social Aspects of Software Engineering
                                         ACM Reference Format:
                                         Adam Alami, Victor Vadmand Jensen, and Neil A. Ernst. 2018. Accountability in Code Review: The Role of
                                         Intrinsic Drivers and the Impact of LLMs. ACM Trans. Softw. Eng. Methodol. 37, 4, Article 111 (August 2018),
                                         45 pages. https://doi.org/XXXXXXX.XXXXXXX

                                         1    INTRODUCTION
                                         Accountability is the expectation of being held responsible for one’s actions and the need
                                         to provide explanations and reasoning for such actions to others in the future [41, 52, 77].
                                         To software engineers, accountability for code quality is to adhere and meet expectations and
                                         justify their coding decisions. Either these expectations are set at the organizational or team levels,
                                         or they align with widely recognized quality standards [2].
                                         Authors’ addresses: Adam Alami, adal@mmmi.sdu.dk, The University of Southern Denmark, The Maersk Mc-Kinney Moller
                                         Institute, Sønderborg, Denmark, 6400; Victor Vadmand Jensen, Aarhus University, Jens Chr. Skous Vej 4, Aarhus C, Denmark,
                                         vvj@clin.au.dk; Neil A. Ernst, University of Victoria, PO Box 1700 STN CSC, Victoria BC V8W 2Y2, Canada, nernst@uvic.ca.

                                         Permission to make digital or hard copies of all or part of this work for personal or classroom use is granted without fee
                                         provided that copies are not made or distributed for profit or commercial advantage and that copies bear this notice and          111
                                         the full citation on the first page. Copyrights for components of this work owned by others than ACM must be honored.
                                         Abstracting with credit is permitted. To copy otherwise, or republish, to post on servers or to redistribute to lists, requires
                                         prior specific permission and/or a fee. Request permissions from permissions@acm.org.
                                         © 2018 Association for Computing Machinery.
                                         1049-331X/2018/8-ART111 $15.00
                                         https://doi.org/XXXXXXX.XXXXXXX


                                                                      ACM Trans. Softw. Eng. Methodol., Vol. 37, No. 4, Article 111. Publication date: August 2018.
111:2                                                                                           Alami, et al.


   Developing software is done as part of a social system. Accountability maintains stability in
these social systems [53]. Accountability mechanisms thus have profound consequences for core
organizational functions, yet the software engineering (SE) research community has paid little
attention to them [2]. The absence of accountability in a social system like software development
may result in individuals acting with little regard to the consequences imposed by others [61].
Consequently, organizations may find it challenging to effectively manage their operations [52].
   A key area of accountability in software engineering is deciding which changes to make in
a codebase and the applicable quality standards. These decisions are often taken as part of a
socio-technical process called code review [23, 83]. Code reviews can lead to social dilemmas
because individual and collective interests may conflict [39, 40]. A social dilemma is a situation
when individuals are faced with a choice between pursuing their own interests at the expense
of a group or cooperating for the greater benefit of the collective [39, 40]. The dilemma arises
because if everyone pursues their own self-interest, the collective outcome is worse than if everyone
cooperated [39, 40].
   In our previous work, we reported that intrinsic drivers such as personal standards and professional
integrity underpin software engineers’ sense of accountability for code quality [2]. They shape how
developers perceive and respond to their responsibilities in meeting code quality expectations. Peer-
led review is a well-established code quality assurance practice, where peers review each other’s
code for errors, readability, and adherence to agreed coding standards [4, 82]. Group dynamics,
human interactions, and mutual expectations influence accountability in this process, bringing a
social dimension to it [2].
   Large Language Models (LLMs) like GPT-4 are powerful multipurpose products, capable of
generating code and assisting in software development activities, including documentation, debugging,
design suggestions, and code review [45]. The versatility and broad applicability of LLMs have
the potential to influence the landscape of software engineering by either reducing the reliance
on human-led activities or supporting tasks that were previously considered too complex for
automation, including code review [110, 125].
   However, SE activities and practices are highly collaborative. The introduction of LLM-assisted
reviews to traditionally human-led activities may influence or even shift accountability dynamics.
The reduction in human interactions may weaken the reinforcement of team norms and informal
accountability mechanisms used to enforce it [2].
   During code reviews, software developers may face pressure to justify their decisions and actions
to the rest of the group, fearing negative evaluations, a type of social dilemma known as a public
good dilemma [38, 76, 115]. They need to justify their coding decisions, and failing to do so may
tarnish their reputation as reliable and cooperative team members.
   Analogous to social dilemmas, where individuals are evaluated against group expectations [41],
software developers in code reviews face similar conditions. They must navigate justifying and
defending their coding decisions and maintaining their image as competent and collaborative
team members. Drawing from the broader social dilemma literature [37, 39], where the failure to
align with group expectations risks one being perceived as untrustworthy, non-cooperative, and
sometimes leading to reputational consequences [40, 41]. Social dilemma research has shown that
individuals exhibit reduced self-interest when they are subjected to accountability measures [40, 41].
To understand whether the condition of being held accountable in code review influences developers’
code quality, our study aims to explore the intrinsic drivers that motivate software engineers in
these contexts and how they influence their sense of accountability. By examining the impact of
both peer-led and LLM-assisted code reviews, we seek to learn the underlying mechanisms that
shape accountability for code quality within the socio-technical system of software development.


ACM Trans. Softw. Eng. Methodol., Vol. 37, No. 4, Article 111. Publication date: August 2018.
Accountability in Code Review: The Role of Intrinsic Drivers and the Impact of LLMs                               111:3


   Human and social aspects of code review have received little attention from SE research [11, 36].
We elaborate on the few studies that have, later in Sect. 3. Like most SE research, code review
studies have primarily focused on technical artifact analysis in open source communities [109].
   Building on our earlier study that laid a basic understanding of accountability in SE [2], we
now delve into software engineers’ innate qualities, which we term their intrinsic drivers [42].
Recognizing the importance of social dilemmas within the code review process, we seek to
understand software engineers’ intrinsic drivers, how they affect accountability during peer-led code
reviews, and the impact of the integration of LLM-assisted code reviews. With this focus, we aim
to provide an understanding of accountability for code quality decisions within the socio-technical
system of software development, beyond the technical aspects.
   Intrinsic drivers are factors such as adhering to self-imposed personal standards and reputation
that drive behavior and influence outcomes [27, 46]. Our previous work showed the importance of
intrinsic drivers for software engineers, nurturing their feeling of accountability for their work
[2]. However, how these intrinsic qualities shape individuals’ accountability is unreported in both
the accountability theories [52, 53] and software engineering [2], leaving a gap in understanding
the role of intrinsic drivers in influencing accountability in SE. Therefore, we propose exploring
intrinsic drivers within SE to fully comprehend their impact on professional behavior and outcomes.
   Understanding intrinsic drivers’ role in driving accountability for code quality is a relevant
software engineering problem. Quality assurance practices like testing and code review serve as
accountability mechanisms for ensuring code quality [2, 22]. Without a clear understanding of
how the human and social factors, such as intrinsic drivers influence accountability, organizations
risk relying on extrinsic motivators (e.g., promotion) and technical processes (e.g., continuous
integration), which alone may not be as effective in sustaining long-term accountability as relying
on both personal qualities and other social enablers.
   In addition, the increased adoption of artificial intelligence (AI) in SE [45] introduces a potential
alteration to established social dynamics due to reduced opportunities for peer interaction and group
norms. Therefore, for designing interventions that preserve the social fabric of software engineering
teams in future AI-augmented SE, it is crucial to understand the influence of intrinsic drivers in
both peer-led and LLM-assisted contexts. For example, engineers who derive accountability from
professional integrity and peer validation may struggle to adapt in an environment where feedback
is predominantly AI-driven. This understanding will also lay the foundation for future work to
create more resilient accountability practices that integrate human and AI collaboration effectively.
   In our previous work, we identified several outcomes software engineers bear accountability for,
namely meeting deadlines, software security, and code quality [2]. We also examined a broad set of
drivers, including extrinsic motivators such as financial rewards.
   While our previous work focused on the building blocks of accountability [2], in this study, we
aim to focus on a specific SE outcome, code quality, in a common SE practice, code review. We
build on our prior findings by investigating how intrinsic drivers influence accountability in a
specific SE practice and how an evolving technology, such as LLMs, might reshape the evolution of
accountability at the individual and team levels. By exploring accountability within a socio-technical
context like code review, we aim to identify the interplay between human drivers, accountability
for an important SE outcome, and potential implications of AI integration. By doing so, we seek to
address gaps left unexamined in our earlier work.
   In this study, we expand on this work and focus on a particular outcome, code quality, a critically
important SE outcome [3, 117]. This leads us to propose:

RQ1: What are the key intrinsic drivers of software engineers that influence their sense of accounta-
bility towards the quality of their code?

                           ACM Trans. Softw. Eng. Methodol., Vol. 37, No. 4, Article 111. Publication date: August 2018.
111:4                                                                                           Alami, et al.


   To address RQ1, we carried out a two-phased sequential qualitative study (interviews →
focus groups) [32]. In Phase I (16 interviews), we sought to investigate the intrinsic drivers of
software engineers influencing their sense of accountability for code quality, relying on self-reported
claims. However, relying on self-reported data for complex and subjective topics like accountability
is subject to biases and inaccuracies caused by social desirability bias, recall bias, and self-perception
[94]. Therefore, in Phase II, we tested these traits and claims in a more natural setting by simulating
traditional peer-led reviews using four focus groups (5–6 participants each). This design allowed
us to compensate for the inherent methodological weaknesses of each phase, a strength of mixed
methods studies [32]. By design, focus groups foster social interaction [73], which can test self-
reported intrinsic drivers influencing personal accountability in professional-like settings [29]. This
interaction helped us to further understand how software engineers navigate the challenges of
maintaining their intrinsic drivers for accountability in a complex social setting.
   In Phase I of the study, we identified four intrinsic drivers that influence software engineers’ sense
of accountability to meet established expectations for code quality: personal standards, professional
integrity, pride in code quality, and maintaining personal reputation.
   In Phase I and our previous work [2], code review emerged as a significant accountability
mechanism for code quality. Participants frequently referred to code review as a central process to
demonstrate and enforce accountability. This emergent finding provided a natural basis for shifting
the focus of the secondary analysis to code review, aligning with the broader goal of understanding
accountability in socio-technical systems. Moreover, participants emphasized the relevance of code
review as an accountability mechanism. These discussions underscored its importance as both a
collaborative and evaluative process, making it a relevant context for deeper exploration in the
secondary analysis.
   Recent advances in AI technologies such as neural network architectures, recurrent neural
networks, and transformers [118] have led to the development of several commercial products such
as Tabnine1 , CodeX2 , and Github’s Copilot3 . Although these products are mainly directed to code
generation, Large Language Models (LLM) are multi-task products capable of assisting in other SE
tasks [45, 80], traditionally governed by humans.
   As efforts in code review automation are growing, e.g., [91, 106], the integration of LLMs into
code review is either already happening [78, 80] or just a matter of time [80]. This may bring a
significant shift from traditional code review. For example, in response to RQ1, we learned that
engineers feel accountable for the quality of their code to their peers. In an LLM-assisted code
review, by comparison, human feedback and interaction are replaced by a machine equivalent. This
shift has prompted us to examine the resilience and perseverance of human factors, such as the
desire to maintain professional integrity, in a machine-based evaluation process.
   While RQ1 delves into the intrinsic traits driving software engineers’ accountability in a human-
led code review process, RQ2 seeks to understand the ramifications for accountability in LLM-
assisted code review. Most SE activities are highly collaborative. Thus, the integration of AI into
the already complex human and social practices requires a thorough understanding of potential
implications. Specifically, the introduction of AI in practices traditionally dominated by human
expertise raises questions about the human-AI engagement and behavioral responses of software
engineers. For example, Malone et al. suggest that the most challenging changes in AI integration
are not computers replacing humans but rather people and computers working together as an
integrated approach [81]. To effectively augment SE practices with the integration of AI, it is

1 https://www.tabnine.com/
2 https://openai.com/index/openai-codex/
3 https://github.com/features/copilot/



ACM Trans. Softw. Eng. Methodol., Vol. 37, No. 4, Article 111. Publication date: August 2018.
Accountability in Code Review: The Role of Intrinsic Drivers and the Impact of LLMs                               111:5


crucial to understand how software engineering teams engage with and respond to AI tools in
their workflows. AI is a newcomer to an already socially loaded process like code review, where
accountability for code quality—a key and highly sought-after SE outcome [3, 74, 117]—is shaped
by complex human interactions and social norms. AI integration into SE raises many questions
about how it may influence the social fabric of these processes, especially in terms of accountability.
Therefore, we inquire:
RQ2: How does LLM-assisted code review affect software engineers’ accountability for code
quality?
  LLM-assisted code review refers to the process of utilizing a Large Language Model, such as
GPT-4 or Gemini, to evaluate and provide feedback on software code. For our study, we designed a
specific prompt for the LLM to simulate the role of a reviewer by analyzing the attached code and
generating feedback (see Sect. 4).
  To address RQ2, we carried out LLM-assisted reviews in the second part of our focus groups.
Our focus groups were scheduled over two hours. In the first hour, we conducted peer-led reviews
(RQ1), and in the second hour, LLM-assisted reviews (further details in Sect. 4).
  We contribute:
    - Elucidation of individual and collective accountability in code review: Our study
      provides a comprehensive examination of how intrinsic drivers such as professional integrity,
      pride, personal standards, and reputation influence software engineers’ sense of individual
      accountability towards code quality. During the code review, we identified a complex accounta-
      bility process. Accountability for code quality shifts from the individual-level when writing
      code to the collective-level when peers reciprocate accountability for code quality during the
      review. This contribution shows that code quality is beyond standards, processes, or metrics
      but a shared value that is cultivated through a sense of individual and collective accountability.
      This implies that code quality is not solely achieved through tools and technical practices like
      testing and coding standards but is also deeply personal and collectively fostered through
      social norms and human interactions. Our findings underscores the importance of balancing
      the “socio” and “technical” dimensions in pursuing code quality. By integrating both human-
      driven and technical practices, SE teams can create environments where accountability for
      code quality is cultivated through shared values.
    - Insights into the impact of LLM-assisted code review: Our work assesses the impact
      of LLM-assisted code review on accountability for code quality. We provide insights into
      the challenges and disruptions introduced by integrating AI technologies into traditional
      SE practices. When we introduced LLM-assisted reviews, we learned that this newcomer
      disrupts the collective sense of accountability for code quality. This disruption does not
      only accentuate the social fundamentals of code review but also emphasizes the need for
      designing AI integration in SE that supports rather than disrupts the social fabric of SE teams.
      While AI will continue augmenting SE practices, our findings inform future research and
      organizations that integrating AI into the inherently socio-technical processes of SE is not a
      simple out-of-the-box integration. The disruption to collective accountability demonstrates
      the importance of considering the social impact of AI integration. The design of future AI
      integration in SE should account for the social fabric of SE teams.
    - Identification of LLM-related factors disrupting collective accountability for code
      quality: We identified LLM-related factors that contribute to the disruption of collective
      accountability within code review, mainly trust in LLMs and their inherent limitations. This
      contribution emphasizes the importance of addressing trust in AI technologies and preserving
      the social aspects of the adoption process. Our findings show that software engineers remain

                           ACM Trans. Softw. Eng. Methodol., Vol. 37, No. 4, Article 111. Publication date: August 2018.
111:6                                                                                           Alami, et al.


        skeptical about the reliability of AI as a partner. This trust issue stems from the training
        constraints of the AI tools and limitations in integrating seamlessly into SE processes. These
        findings highlight that the technology’s current shortcomings undermine confidence in its
        ability to support SE effectively. Addressing these limitations is essential for advancing AI
        tools as reliable partners in SE processes.
   We structure the remainder of this paper as follows: In the next section 2, we discuss the
theoretical frameworks reported in social and organizational sciences literature. In Sect. 3, we
discuss related work. Section 4 describes our research design and methods. Section 5 is dedicated
to the data interpretation from our first and second phases of the study. The implications of our
results, in both existing theory and practice, are then discussed in Sect. 6. In section 7, we discuss
the study’s trustworthiness, limitations, and trade-offs. Section 8 brings us to a close.

2   THEORETICAL BACKGROUND
Accountability is considered the link between individuals and their social system, creating an
identity relationship associating individuals with their actions and performance [84, 112]. Accounta-
bility has implications in all organizational levels [52]. However, our focus, in this study, is the micro-
level or felt accountability (referred to simply as “accountability”) which refers to the individual’s
perception of accountability [52]; the most studied type of accountability [61]. This type of accounta-
bility is contingent upon the individual’s own interpretation [52], rather than the external milieu
imposed expectations [48].
   Irrespective of the nature of a collective, ranging from a dyad to a civilization, addressing
coordination and collaboration among its constituent members with diverse interests is imperative
[105]. Accountability comes to play by establishing shared expectations in social systems. When
standards are set, people must adhere to them and the failure to do so may result in imposing
penalties [52, 105]. Compliance with standards is evaluated at various layers of social systems,
including the individual, the dyad, the group, the organization, and the society as a whole [52, 56].
   The concept of accountability inherently implies an anticipated evaluation [61]. For the latter
to take place, the individual must engage in an account-giving process [51], which may results in
rewards or sanctions, and its legitimacy is affirmed by an audience [61]. The role of the audience
is to evaluate performance using rules, standards, and expectations and distribute rewards or
recommend punishments based on the outcome of the evaluations [61]. Schlenker et al. explained
that “accounts” shared in the process are fundamental to the process as they either enhance, protect,
or damage the individuals’ self-image [105]. Tetlock argued that individuals often “defend” their
actions when facing evaluations to protect their self-image and status, highlighting accountability
as a fundamental social contingency driving individual behavior and decisions [112].
   Drawing from several conceptualization frameworks [52, 105, 112], the integration of accounta-
bility in a social systems aims at creating social order [60]. Social systems employ accountability
mechanisms to cultivate structured environments and social order, where individuals are expected
to be held accountable for their participation in various social activities [61].
   When faced with accountability demands, individuals develop coping mechanisms, both proactive
and reactive, to maintain a consistent image of themselves [61, 105]. Finally, given its implications,
individuals resort to avoiding, manipulating, or otherwise coping with their accountabilities
[61, 112]. For example, Tetlock explained that individuals engage in cognitive laziness, adjusting
their account-giving in advance to align with the audience preferences or using their most easily
defensible options (acceptability heuristic) to explain their actions [112]. However, if they discover
that they are accountable after the actions have occurred, then, they may engage in retrospective
rationality, defending their past behaviors with justifications and excuses [77].

ACM Trans. Softw. Eng. Methodol., Vol. 37, No. 4, Article 111. Publication date: August 2018.
Accountability in Code Review: The Role of Intrinsic Drivers and the Impact of LLMs                                    111:7




         Coping
                                                                          Conduct
       Mechanisms
                                                  Evaluation                                   Audience




                    Account-giving




                                                                                                Used for
        Individual                                                                             Evaluation



                Accountable                 Rewards           Sanctions                Rules,           Unofficial
                    for                                                              standard,        expectations
                                                                                        and            and shared
                                                                                    expectations         norms
         Outcomes

                                                                                       Formal           Informal
                                                                                    Accountability    Accountability



                              Fig. 1. The Dynamics of Accountability in Social Systems


   In this intricate context, Frink and Klimoski suggest that any conceptualization of workplace
accountability should consider both the formal and the informal manifestation of accountability
[52]. While informal accountability is formalized over time and grounded in organizational rules and
policies [51], informal (also referred to as accountability for others) is the perceived accountability
“outside of or beyond formal position or organizational policy” [124]. Informal accountability is
grounded in unofficial expectations and discretionary behaviors that result from the socialization
of network members [99]. Shared norms also lay out an informal code of conduct used by group
members as a reference for appropriate and inappropriate behaviors [99]. Romzek et al. found
that informal accountability in nonprofit networks is fostered by trust, reciprocity, and respect
for institutional turf [99]. Similarly, informal accountability is exercised through evaluations that
result in either rewards or sanctions [98], but remain informal in nature. For example, rewards can
be in the form of favors and public recognition, and sanctions may lead to reduced reputation, loss
of opportunities within the group, and exclusion from future information sharing [98].
   Figure 1 is a visual representation of the theorization of accountability. In sum, accountability
is rooted in social systems and the individuals are at its core. It consists of an evaluation process
where individuals are held answerable for their actions and decisions, guided by interpersonal,
social, and structural factors within specific sociocultural contexts. Performance against predefined
rules, standards, official and unofficial expectations, and shared norms is assessed by an audience
resulting in the dispensation of rewards or sanctions. In response, individuals develop various
coping mechanisms, both proactive and reactive, to safeguard and maintain a consistent self-image
within their social system. Some of these mechanisms may include cognitive strategies as aligning
actions with audience preferences or retrospective rationalization, where individuals defend past
behaviors with justifications and excuses. While traditional accountability theory has often treated
the “audience” as a singular entity, Gelfand et al. argue that it can be deconstructed into a web of
multiple parties to whom the individual is answerable [56].

                            ACM Trans. Softw. Eng. Methodol., Vol. 37, No. 4, Article 111. Publication date: August 2018.
111:8                                                                                           Alami, et al.


2.1     Operationalization of accountability
In software engineering, formal accountability is operationalized and controlled through institu-
tionalized mechanisms that are explicitly designed to enforce it, such as performance evaluations,
established coding standards, and formal performance reviews. These mechanisms aim to align
individual behavior with organizational goals by providing clear expectations and consequences,
whether through rewards such as promotions or punishments like performance improvement
plans. For instance, performance metrics might include defect rates in code or adherence to project
deadlines. These mechanisms aim to ensure that accountability is tied to the outcomes set by the
organization [2]. In our previous work, we found that software engineers are being individually
held accountable for code quality, software security, and meeting project deadlines [2].
   In contrast, informal accountability operates through the shared norms and expectations within
teams. Rooted in interpersonal relationships and mutual trust, it is reinforced through peer feedback
and team interactions rather than formal rules. As highlighted in our previous research [2], informal
accountability is cultivated through intrinsic motivations and social drivers such as meeting peers
expectations, reciprocity of accountability, and adhering to the team’s standards. For example, a
software engineer may strive for high code quality to uphold their reputation within the team
or to meet peer expectations during code reviews. Unlike formal accountability, which relies on
structured and institutionalized evaluations, informal accountability relies on psychologically safe
environments where individuals are encouraged to take ownership of their contributions without
fear of blame [2]. Both forms of accountability co-exist in software engineering environments, with
informal mechanisms often emerging within the team [2].

3     RELATED WORK
In this section, we summarize and discuss existing research on human and social factors affecting
code review processes. Based on the literature we surveyed, “social” aspects pertain to group-level
interactions, relationships, and dynamics within the SE environment, such as communication and
collaboration. Social also entails behaviors inherent to group dynamics such as trust, perception of
fairness, and conflicts. On the other hand, “human” aspects are particular to individual’ behaviors
and characteristics such as cognitive load, motivation, and emotional responses.

3.1     Social aspects in SE
In this stream of work, researchers examined the social concerns arising from the inherently human-
intensive aspects of the code review. German et al. study fairness by examining how practitioners
perceive the treatment they receive from their peers during a code review [57]. They found that a
sense of unfairness is predominant among developers. This is more typical with authors of code
than reviewers, and there is an often misplaced sense that the merits of the code should dictate
acceptance [57].
   Gonçalves et al reported that developers find code review conflict-causing [122]. However, neither
that study nor the fairness study [57] examined how conflict or unfairness might impact personal
accountability, although Gonçalves et al noted organizational factors, such as autonomy, might
result in developers’ improved “effort in doing a good job.” Role inequality was, as we will also
show, less important as long as the critiques were constructive [122].
   Bosu et al. and Bosu and Carver studied reviewers’ perceptions of their peers in the review
process [22, 23], particularly how it emerges and influences the practice. Both studies conclude
that the review process influences impression formation, especially peers’ competence. Subpar
code changes influence perception negatively and subsequently become a perception of authors in
future reviews [22, 23].

ACM Trans. Softw. Eng. Methodol., Vol. 37, No. 4, Article 111. Publication date: August 2018.
Accountability in Code Review: The Role of Intrinsic Drivers and the Impact of LLMs                               111:9


  Egelman et al. looked at negative interactions in code review (“pushback”) at Google [44]. They
found interpersonal conflict had several causes, such as confrontational comments.
  In our previous work, we found that the process of code review is strategically used as a
mechanism for ensuring accountability for code quality, aiming to compel software engineers to
adhere to established quality standards [2].

3.2   Human Aspects in SE
This stream of work focuses on specific reviewer behavior [36]. Kitagawa et al. used simulation to
understand developer engagement during code review [70]. They used a situational model based
on a snowdrift game. The key finding of the study is that reviewers partake in the review when
they perceive that the value of their participation outweighs the cost [70]. Baum et al. carried out
an experiment study to investigate the relationship between reviewers’ cognitive burden and their
performance during the review [16]. The main finding is the relation between working memory
capacity and the reviewer’s efficacy in detecting delocalized flaws, as well as the negative effect of
larger and more complex code changes on reviews’ performance [16].
   Alami et al. sought to understand the motivation of open-source contributors to participate in
code reviews [1]. They conclude that contributors’ motivation is rooted in hackers ethics (e.g.,
improvement of quality and passion for coding). Despite rejections and toxic communication,
contributors show resilience, driven by their intrinsic and extrinsic motives to participate. Some of
the intrinsic drivers are the passion for coding and caring about the quality of the code. Extrinsically,
contributors partake in code review to showcase their skills and maintain a reputation in the
community [1].
   The distinction between open-source code review and institutional code review is important.
Open source code review has been the focus of the majority of the research. However, it is more often
asynchronous and distributed, compared to institutional reviews. For example, the systematic
review of Badampudi et al. [11] explained that “when discussing reviewer interactions, human
aspects received much attention in the reviewed primary studies. However, the investigation of
review dynamics, social interactions, and review performance is focused on OSS projects. It is not
known if such interactions differ in proprietary projects” [11].

3.3   Accountability in SE
Our earlier study [2] examined the broader concept of accountability in SE and was not directly
concerned with code review. That broad investigation of individual accountability within software
engineers highlighted two factors driving accountability: institutionalized and grassroots. Institu-
tional accountability, such as financial rewards and punishment (e.g., denial of promotion), is
purposefully designed by the organization to control accountability. Grassroots accountability, by
contrast, is either peer-driven or innate. Software engineers feel accountable to their peers, fostering
a sense of collective responsibility. Their accountability for their outcomes, including code quality,
is also driven by their intrinsic drivers, such as the desire to maintain personal standards and
professional integrity. The study also identified several mechanisms to control accountability, such
as performance review (institutionalized) and code review (grassroots) [2]. We build on our earlier
study’s foundational understanding of accountability to examine the role of intrinsic drivers in
accountability in the context of peer-led versus LLM-based code reviews. In Sect. 4.1, we elaborate
further on the methodological and empirical relation to our previous work reported in [2].
   In summary, related work highlights the importance of both human and social factors in shaping
code review practices, from individual behaviors like cognitive load and motivation to social
constructs such as trust, fairness, and conflict resolution. However, much of this work has focused
on open-source settings, leaving gaps in understanding how these factors operate in institutional

                           ACM Trans. Softw. Eng. Methodol., Vol. 37, No. 4, Article 111. Publication date: August 2018.
111:10                                                                                                         Alami, et al.


                                        Table 1. Interviewees’ characteristics.

 #       Role                        Exp.      Method      Industry sector                         Gender        Country
 P1      Software Engineer        3-5 years    DevOps      Information Technology services          Male         Germany
 P2      Software Engineer        3-5 years    Hybrid      Information Technology services          Male         UK
 P3      Software developer       9-11 years   Scrum       Robotics manufacturing                   Male         USA
 P4      Software developer       9-11 years   Hybrid      Information Technology services          Male         Italy
 P5      Sr. software engineer    6-8 years    Scrum       Information Technology services        Non-binary     Germany
 P6      Sr. software engineer    >12 years    Kanban      Banking services                         Male         Canada
 P7      Software developer        <3 years    Hybrid      Information Technology services          Male         France
 P8      Sr. software engineer    >12 years    Scrum       Information Technology services         Female        India
 P9      Sr. software engineer    6-8 years    Scrum       Information Technology services          Male         Serbia
 P10     Sr. software engineer    9-11 years   Hybrid      Global software vendor                   Male         Canada
 P11     Software developer       3-5 years    Scrum       Global software vendor                   Male         UK
 P12     Software engineer         <3 years    DevOps      Information Technology services         Female        India
 P13     Sr. software engineer    9-11 years   Scrum       Wearables & IoT Technology              Female        Finland
 P14     Software developer       3-5 years    Hybrid      Design consultancy                      Female        Canada
 P15     Tech Lead                >12 years    Scrum       Technology & engineering services       Female        USA
 P16     Software Engineer         <3 years    DevOps      Information Technology services         Female        Portugal



contexts. Furthermore, while prior studies, including our own, i.e, [2], have explored accountability
as a broader construct in SE, how accountability manifests and influences the code review process
remains underexplored. Furthermore, the specific role of intrinsic drivers in shaping accountability
within peer-led and LLM-assisted reviews is yet to be investigated. In this study, we address these
gaps by examining how intrinsic drivers influence accountability for code quality in peer-led and
LLM-assisted reviews.

4     METHODS
We use an exploratory sequential two-phased design (interviews → focus groups) [32]. We used
interviews in Phase I, which gave us rich insights into software engineers’ intrinsic drivers and
how they influence their sense of accountability towards the quality of their code.
   In Phase II, we used user enactments with targeted focus groups in both peer-led (RQ1) and
LLM-assisted (RQ2) code reviews. This design allowed us to further validate the findings from
Phase I and to triangulate our findings [109] using two distinct research methods and two sources
of data, ensuring empirical rigor in investigating the uncharted relationship between intrinsic
drivers and accountability for code quality.
   Furthermore, in Phase 1, the inductive analysis of the interview data allowed us to identify
the key findings. In Phase 2, we sought to validate the earlier findings using focus groups. The
secondary data analysis enhanced the earlier insights by contextualizing them within a setting
close to a professional context, which the interviews alone could not fully capture.

4.1      Phase I: Interview Study
   Interviewee recruitment & selection. We used Prolific4 , a research market platform, to recruit
participants for the interviews. Recruiting qualified participants on crowd-worker platforms can be
challenging [5]. We followed the best practices we learned in our previous research, as explicated in
[2]. We used coding tasks and critical thinking questions grounded in the participant’s experiences
to evaluate their skills [5].
   We sent an invitation to 562 pre-screened participants to participate in a further pre-screening
survey for the interviews5 . Based on 170 responses we received, 16 accepted to participate. We
used a broad range of criteria to select our interviewees, such as country of residence, project
4 https://www.prolific.co/
5 All study materials, including the pre-screening survey for interviewees are available in the replication package



ACM Trans. Softw. Eng. Methodol., Vol. 37, No. 4, Article 111. Publication date: August 2018.
Accountability in Code Review: The Role of Intrinsic Drivers and the Impact of LLMs                              111:11


role, experience, gender, and accountability practices within the participant team and organization.
Table 1 overviews the demographics. Six respondents identified as female, one as non-binary, and
nine as male.
   We used purposive sampling for participant selection [12]. This method allowed us to use
our “judgment” (i.e., “the researcher can exercise expert judgment”) [12] in determining which
participants fit our selection criteria. Even though this sampling is inherently subjective [12],
we mitigated potential biases in our selection by employing a diverse set of criteria [12], such
as participants’ roles, levels of experience, industry sectors, software development methods,
and geographical locations. This diversity ensures that our sample reflects a diverse range of
perspectives.
   For example, while P1 and P16 are both early-career software engineers working in DevOps
environments, they identify with different genders and are geographically located in different
countries (male from Germany and female from Portugal). Similarly, P6 and P15, both highly
experienced software engineers (over 12 years of experience), differ in their roles (senior software
engineer vs. Tech Lead) and industry sectors (banking services vs. technology and engineering
services). In our selection process, we intentionally varied the attributes of each participant in
subsequent selections to promote diversity. Each time a participant was considered for selection,
we sought differences in variables such as role, experience level, methods, industry sector, gender,
or geographical location from those already included in the sample. This approach allowed us to
systematically build a sample that captures a diverse range of perspectives and contexts.
   We also sought participants with varying degrees of accountability and practices used to control it,
reinforcing the depth and breadth of our sample. For example, among our interviewees (P1, P2, and
P3, as listed in Tbl. 1), all identified “code quality” as their primary individual accountability within
their respective teams. However, they reported varying levels of accountability. P1 expressed a high
level of accountability, responding with “strongly agree” to all accountability-related questions.
In contrast, P2 and P3 displayed a moderate level of accountability, responding with “somewhat
agree” to most of the accountability questions. Below, we highlight the recruitment process:

     - Initial pre-screening: The purpose of this pre-screening phase is to evaluate potential
       participants’ skills. Although Prolific provides an array of self-reported skills accessible in
       the participant’s profile, they are not vetted [5]. To ensure high-quality sample, researchers
       must prescreen their own subjects [30]. In this pre-screening activity, we used an iterative
       and controlled prescreening, and task-oriented questions [5]. While the iterative process
       (we assessed 50 responses a day) allowed us close scrutiny of the answers, we developed
       questions to avoid merely testing theoretical understanding, but we wanted participants to
       apply their skills to solve specific problems or discuss complex scenarios [5]. For example, in
       one of the pre-screening survey, we asked: “Please describe a specific instance where you
       contributed to the success of a software development project. What challenges did you face,
       and how did your involvement impact the project’s outcome?” This approach allowed us to
       ensure that selected participants had practical experience and demonstrated critical thinking
       skills, demonstrating genuine experience and relevant to SE. All text-free questions were
       scrutinized manually and ChatGPT 4.0 was used for AI-generated content. At the end of this
       activity, we curated a total of 562 qualified participants. This activity took place in the period
       of August - September 2023.
     - Additional pre-screening: To ensure participants with varying degrees of accountability
       and practices used to control it, we carried out an additional pre-screening survey. In this
       survey, we collected data on how accountability mechanisms shape the participant’s work
       environment, which we did not have in previous pre-screening data. This additional data

                           ACM Trans. Softw. Eng. Methodol., Vol. 37, No. 4, Article 111. Publication date: August 2018.
111:12                                                                                          Alami, et al.


       reinforced depth and breadth in our sample. For example, interviewees P1, P2, and P3, as
       listed in Tbl. 1, all identified “code quality” as their primary individual accountability in their
       teams. However, they reported varying levels of accountability. P1 expressed a high level of
       accountability, responding with “strongly agree” to all accountability-related questions. In
       contrast, P2 and P3 displayed a moderate level of accountability, responding with “somewhat
       agree” to most of the accountability questions. We received 170 responses and we selected
       twenty participants; twelve accepted to participate (i.e., P1-P12) (the data and findings from
       this sample are reported in [2]. Due to low participation of females in the earlier selection
       (reported in [2]), we invited more female to take part in the study from the pre-screened sample
       in the earlier pre-screening activity. We successfully recruited four additional participants
       (i.e., P13-P16). The first selection took place in September 2023 and the second in January
       2024.
     - Interviews: Upon the successful selection of our participants, we interviewed P1-P12 in
       October 2023 and P13-P16 in January 2024.
  The recruitment and data analysis processes were conducted iteratively and in parallel to facilitate
the monitoring of saturation (see Sect. 4.1) and to determine the appropriate sample size [92].
Following each interview, we carried out a preliminary analysis and performed saturation checks.
These checks provided us with confidence in our sample size and the depth of evidence collected
thus far.

   Relationship to ongoing research study. Our Phase I interviews are part of an ongoing research
project into accountability. We reported on twelve participants in [2] and examined broadly the
concept of accountability in SE. In this paper, we add four further participants to the interviews (grey
rows in Table 1) and re-analyze the entire dataset, from scratch, in the context of code review, using
RQ1 and RQ2 as new analytical lenses. We expand on the way individual and team accountability
influence code quality in the context of one team-level control mechanism of accountability, code
reviews. In addition, we expand on our findings by including the role that AI assistance might
play in influencing accountability in the context of code review. While some intrinsic drivers (only
personal standards and professional reputation) emerged as themes in the previous study [2], they
were not a main focus of the research.
   In addition, the new dataset and analysis have yielded additional themes in Phase I of the study
not previously reported in [2], namely, professional integrity and pride in code quality. Furthermore,
Phase II data has also provided new and complementary insights into the earlier findings.
   Methodologically, secondary analysis—re-analyzing existing qualitative data sets to address
new research questions—is a well-accepted and sound method in qualitative research [63, 100].
This is permitted when the dataset adds value to the new research questions and brings deeper
understanding without the need to collect new data [63]. We recruited four additional interviewees
to the original twelve, enhancing female participation in our sample. With our new analytical
lens (RQ1), we focused our re-analysis on code review as an accountability mechanism and how
intrinsic drivers ignite a sense of accountability for code quality.

   Data collection. We used semi-structured interviews to collect Phase I data. We remained flexible
during the interviews, aligning the predefined interview questions with the flow of the discussion.
   Our interviews covered background, a general understanding of accountability in their teams,
and then questions to identify how accountability mechanisms impact the desired outcomes. In
line with RQ1 objectives, we asked questions to understand how personal traits interplay with the
feeling of accountability towards a team’s and individual’s outcomes. In line with best practices in
qualitative research, we did not ask directly about intrinsic drivers to avoid desirability bias and

ACM Trans. Softw. Eng. Methodol., Vol. 37, No. 4, Article 111. Publication date: August 2018.
Accountability in Code Review: The Role of Intrinsic Drivers and the Impact of LLMs                                  111:13


                                    Table 2. Example of Interview Questions


 Interview component        Examples of questions

                            What rules, policies, and guidelines do you have in place to ensure the outcome set for the
                            team (e.g., quality, efficiency)?

 Accountability             Are there other team or peer expectations that aren’t formal like the guidelines you mentioned?
 mechanisms
                            How are these expectations controlled in your team?

                            How about you? How do these mechanisms influence you? Do you have an example of how
                            you felt when you were asked to be answerable?

                            In your experience, how have the accountability mechanisms you mentioned influenced the
                            desired outcomes you cited?
 Outcomes sought by
 accountability             Have you noticed any unintended consequences or challenges associated with the
 mechanisms                 implementation of these mechanisms?

                            Do you have an example of yourself or a colleague who hasn’t met expectations? What
                            happened?

                            Are there any factors or conditions that you believe can influence the effectiveness of the
                            accountability mechanisms you cited in your team?
 Moderating factors         How do team dynamics and individual characteristics (e.g., experience, role) influence the
                            impact of accountability mechanisms?

                            Can you share an example of how you felt accountable and why?




self-perception inaccuracies [94, 108]. Instead, we sought to identify possible moderating factors
of accountability, such as experience, role hierarchy, and personal traits. Before concluding the
interview, we asked how the interviewee’s team implements effective accountability mechanisms.
Table 2 documents examples from the interview guide. A detailed and complete guide is available
in the replication package (Sect. 4.4).
   We anchored the design of the interview guide in the existing theoretical foundation drawn
from work in social sciences (see Sect. 2). For instance, the theory of accountability proposes the
use of either formal or informal methods to control it. To align with this perspective, we designed
questions to identify formal and informal accountability practices, such as “What rules, policies,
and guidelines do you have in place to ensure the outcome of discussed (e.g., quality, efficiency)?”
and “Are there any other expectations set by the team or your peers, but they are not necessarily
formal like the guidelines you mentioned?”
   We structured the guide into five sections: after the introduction to the interview, section one
sought to capture data on the background of the interviewee and a general understanding of how
accountability manifests in their teams. Section Two sets out to identify accountability mechanisms
and the outcomes they seek to control in the interviewee’s team. Section Three delves into how
the discussed accountability mechanisms impact the desired outcomes. Section Four aimed to
reveal any moderating factors or conditions (e.g., roles or interpersonal relations at work) that may
influence the effectiveness of accountability mechanisms. Before concluding the interview, Section
Five identified best practices used by the interviewee’s team to implement effective accountability
mechanisms.

                           ACM Trans. Softw. Eng. Methodol., Vol. 37, No. 4, Article 111. Publication date: August 2018.
111:14                                                                                          Alami, et al.


   Our interviewees were distributed geographically. We conducted the interviews using Zoom
to accommodate the distributed nature of our sample. Even though ten of our participants are
non-native English speakers, we did not encounter any language challenges. This is likely because
our interviewees are highly educated and from countries where English is widely spoken as a
second language, e.g., India, Finland, and Germany. The interviews lasted 40-60 minutes with a
total of 13h40m of audio. The audio generated a total of 189 pages verbatim after transcribing.
The first author conducted the interviews in October 2023 (for P1-P12) and in January 2024 (for
P13-P16). We used Otter.ai,6 an online transcription tool, to transcribe the audios. We paid £30 to
each interviewee for their participation.
   Saturation. To ensure that the sample size is adequate, we monitored data saturation [7, 87]
throughout our iterative analysis process. During this iterative process, we continuously compared
data and emerging themes, switching back and forth between data collection and analysis [25].
This process allowed us to observe when some of our themes reoccur strongly in the data. This
iterative approach also allowed us to monitor and assess the sample size, i.e., determine whether
more participants are required. We were able to conclude data collection with 16 participants, and
at the same time, no new themes emerged from the analysis. Personal standards and reputations
reached saturation at 12 interviews, pride and professional integrity at 16. The additional four
interviews collected for this study accentuated intrinsic drivers and provided greater depth to the
themes.
   In this process, we combined iterative analysis and saturation monitoring, which allowed us to
determine that 16 participants provided sufficient data to address our RQs comprehensively, as no
new themes emerged beyond this point [59]. Our approach aligns with best practices in qualitative
research, we determined our sample size by the depth and richness of the data we collected than a
pre-determined numerical thresholds [59].
   As this study represents a re-analysis with new research questions, we recommenced saturation
monitoring from the first interview to align with the updated analytical lens (this study’s RQ1
and RQ2) [63]. Saturation monitoring followed an iterative process, documented using a tracking
spreadsheet (available in the replication package, see Sect. 4.4).
   Member checking. Upon the completion of the analysis, we conducted member checking [20, 85].
We sought feedback from our interviewees on our findings. We documented our themes in a
separate document for each interviewee. Then, we shared the link with each interviewee in Prolific
and asked them to comment and provide feedback. Twelve interviewees provided feedback, and
four opted not to provide feedback. No major objections to our interpretations were reported. Some
interviewees requested further clarifications prior to providing their support for the findings. We
paid an additional £5 for this effort.

4.2      Phase II: Focus groups
In Phase II we conducted four focus groups with five to six participants in each group (see Tbl. 7).
This method complements and elaborates Phase I findings in a more interactive and collaborative
environment.
   Self-reported data is subject to potential biases, such as social desirability bias, recall bias, and
self-perception inaccuracies, resulting in over- or under-reporting of behaviors and attitudes [94].
For example, participants might unintentionally or intentionally report data and events in a more
favorable light, either to themselves or in a way that aligns with what they perceive the researcher
favors [94, 108]. Such behavior may impact the reliability of the data. In addition, self-reported
6 https://otter.ai/



ACM Trans. Softw. Eng. Methodol., Vol. 37, No. 4, Article 111. Publication date: August 2018.
                                                                                                                                          Table 3. Configuration of the Four Focus Groups


                                                                                                #     Scenario            Research Objective                                             Participants                                         Main Variable

                                                                                                                          To explore how hierarchical dynamics (e.g., junior             Two junior and one mid-career developer as           Role hierarchy.
                                                                                                                          developers reviewing senior developers’ code) influence        reviewers, and three code authors (two senior
                                                                                                                          the persistence of intrinsic drivers like pride in code        developers, and a team lead)
                                                                                                                          quality and professional integrity. This setup assesses
                                                                                                FG1   Role hierarchy      whether intrinsic motivations are moderated by authority
                                                                                                                          bias and social influence in hierarchical settings, as
                                                                                                                          participants navigate power dynamics during reviews.
                                                                                                                          This scenario helped validate whether intrinsic drivers
                                                                                                                          such a personal standards are upheld in the face of
                                                                                                                          authority.

                                                                                                                          Impact of publicly available review comments on accounta-      3 developers (mixed roles seniority) as reviewers,   Public review.
                                                                                                                          bility. The setup used public visibility in simulated review   3 developers (mixed roles seniority) as code
                                                                                                                          platforms to explore whether participants adapted their        authors
                                                                                                                          feedback style and accountability practices. This scenario
                                                                                                FG2   Public reviews      aligns with prior findings that public feedback increases
                                                                                                                          performance due to visibility but may compromise
                                                                                                                          candidness and individual accountability due to fear
                                                                                                                          of judgment and retaliation. By observing participants’
                                                                                                                          behaviors and reflections on providing feedback in this
                                                                                                                          context, the study captured whether their intrinsic drivers,
                                                                                                                          such as professional reputation, were heightened or
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                Accountability in Code Review: The Role of Intrinsic Drivers and the Impact of LLMs




                                                                                                                          compromised in public review settings.

                                                                                                                          The focus group design introduced complex interdepen-          Mixed team roles (3 senior developers, and 2 mid-    Cross-team
                                                                                                                          dencies between participants assigned to different “teams”     career developers) as reviewers and authors          reviews.
                                                                                                                          contributing to the same codebase. This cross-team
                                                                                                                          reviews was informed by complexity theory, which
                                                                                                FG3   Cross-team review   suggests that accountability becomes diffused in such
                                                                                                                          settings. Observing how participants balanced individual
                                                                                                                          accountability with the need for collective ownership
                                                                                                                          helped validate whether intrinsic drivers persisted or were
                                                                                                                          overridden by external pressures in collaborative settings.




ACM Trans. Softw. Eng. Methodol., Vol. 37, No. 4, Article 111. Publication date: August 2018.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                111:15
                                                                                                                            To investigate the persistence of intrinsic drivers like     Three developers (mixed roles) as reviewers,     Code complexity.   111:16
                                                                                                                            personal standards and professional integrity in reviewing   three developers (mixed roles) as code authors
                                                                                                                            technically complex and variable-quality code. This
                                                                                                      Complex code module   scenario tests how participants’ accountability adapts
                                                                                                FG4   review with varying   to cognitively demanding and high-pressure review
                                                                                                      quality levels        conditions. For example, when faced with complex code
                                                                                                                            and high cognitive effort, both individual and collective
                                                                                                                            accountability may reduce under high cognitive demand.




ACM Trans. Softw. Eng. Methodol., Vol. 37, No. 4, Article 111. Publication date: August 2018.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             Alami, et al.
Accountability in Code Review: The Role of Intrinsic Drivers and the Impact of LLMs                              111:17


data often fail to capture the complexity and dynamics of group interactions and decision-making
processes, which we have observed in this study. For example, while in Phase I we learned that
individual accountability is the main driver for pursuing higher code quality, Phase II focus groups
revealed that the collaborative aspects and peers’ influence during code review shift the sense of
accountability from an individual-level to a collective-level. This intricate detail brought a more
comprehensive understanding of how accountability may take different levels depending on the
activity within the social and collaborative contexts of code review.
   By incorporating focus groups in Phase II, we managed to capture the social and collaborative
aspects of code review processes and observe participants’ behaviors and interactions in real-time,
providing richer and more nuanced data. This methodological triangulation [93] enhances the
validity and reliability of our findings.
   However, we acknowledge that focus groups, as a method, also carry inherent biases, such as
social pressure and groupthink, which may influence participants’ responses and participation [88].
We employed several techniques to mitigate these biases. The moderated focus groups ensured
inclusive contributions from all participants. The discussions used open-ended questions to prompt
participants to share their viewpoints, reducing the likelihood of convergence toward a single
opinion. At the end of each focus group, all participants were encouraged to provide individual
reflections to capture perspectives uninfluenced by group dynamics. Additionally, we employed
participant-authored code to lessen the artificiality often associated with focus group settings.
This approach facilitated the observation of genuine interactions and decision-making processes,
as participants engaged more naturally with their own code. Best practices in focus group and
simulation studies highlight the importance of using contextually relevant and participant-generated
materials to enhance ecological validity and minimize biases inherent in simulated settings [55].
   We organized our two-hour focus groups into two parts: the first hour was dedicated to peer-led
reviews (RQ1) and the second hour to LLM-led reviews (RQ2).
4.2.1 Peer-led reviews. We designed the focus groups to enable the “enactment” of our participants.
In user enactments, researchers design a physical and social context to simulate a future situation
[89]. Users are asked to enact loose scenarios of situations familiar to them [89]. This design allows
the researcher to observe and probe participants, grounding the discussion in a context similar to
the participants’ professional experiences [89] and enhancing the authenticity of qualitative data
collected [29].
   Configuration. We designed four different configurations for our focus groups’ scenarios, as
illustrated in Tbl. 3. Table 4 documents the variables we used to configure each focus group.
By incorporating a diverse range of variables, such as role hierarchy, review visibility, urgency,
code complexity, and team collaboration, we aimed to test software engineers’ intrinsic drivers
influencing their sense of accountability for code quality in settings that resonate with their real-life
circumstances. For example, while the first scenario focuses on evaluating the resilience of reported
intrinsic drivers like pride in code quality and professional integrity when junior developers review
their senior counterparts’ code, the third scenario does the same in a cross-team review setting.
   We designed the first focus group, FG1, to test the persistence of intrinsic drivers, such as
maintaining personal standards for code quality, in a hierarchical setting. Several studies in SE
reported the impact of role seniority on team’s dynamics [10, 33, 102]. In summary, these studies
report that senior developers influence the code review process positively by providing mentorship,
maintaining high standards, and enriching the learning experience of juniors [10, 33, 102]. However,
authority bias theory suggests that employees defer decisions to those perceived in higher positions
or more knowledgeable, reducing their sense of individual accountability [69, 86]. Similarly, social
influence theory posits that individuals are more likely to conform to the opinions and behaviors

                           ACM Trans. Softw. Eng. Methodol., Vol. 37, No. 4, Article 111. Publication date: August 2018.
111:18                                                                                          Alami, et al.


                          Table 4. Variables Used to Configure Focus Group Scenarios


              Variable       Description and Rationale
         Role hierarchy
                     Refers to the structured levels of authority, seniority, and responsibility
                     within the focus group participants.
      Public reviews Code reviews conducted in a open tool with broader visibility, e.g., review
                     comments made available on GitHub or Bitbucket for for other than the
                     group members to consult.
 Cross-team reviews This variable reflects the need to review cross teams when a codebase
                     involves multiple teams collaboration.
   Code complexity Presents the technical challenge presented by the code under review. We
                     used this variable to to present code with varying level of complexity in
                     our scenarios.

of those they perceive as more knowledgeable or authoritative [9, 31]. In a code review context,
junior developers might align their actions and decisions with those of senior developers, thereby
reducing their sense of individual accountability for the code they are asked to review or have
authored.
   The aim of FG2 is to examine the influence of how public feedback settings impact the sense
of accountability for code quality among team members. Impression management theory posits
that in a public setting, individuals may attempt to control their behaviors to influence impressions
others form of them [21]. Such behavior can lead to appearing in conformance to social norms [21].
In the context of code review, public feedback may incentivize individuals to perform well due to
broader visibility, which may heighten accountability. Fear of negative evaluation can also influence
behaviors when feedback is shared publicly [119]. Developers may avoid conveying negative
comments to peers to mitigate the risk of damaging relationships or future retaliations [72], which
may result in compromised levels of accountability for code quality. These theoretical perspectives
have been echoed in SE literature. For example, Rigby et al. report that public peer reviews enhance
performance due to the social facilitation effects [97]. Bosu et al. suggest that developers align their
comments with the group’s norms and expectations [24], indicative of impression management
behaviors in code review.
   FG3 reflects the need to review cross teams when a codebase involves multiple teams collabora-
tion. In a cross-team reviews, dealing with complex codebases can often involve critical interdepen-
dencies, thereby heightening accountability. Complexity theory suggests that complex system often
exhibit nonlinearity, meaning that the effect is not always proportionate to a cause [26, 75]. In a
nonlinear system, a trivial change in one variable can cause significant implications downstream
[26, 75]. This uncertainty may require a clear and higher accountability to ensure that all aspects
of the code are thoroughly reviewed before integration. In complex systems, accountability is also
difficult to pinpoint [66]. For example, a “pilot error” is not simply a failure of the pilot, but rather a
complex interplay of the humans and the technical systems [66]. To test the manifestation and the
persistence of Phase I findings of accountability for code quality in a complex setting, we assigned
FG3’ participants to three different groups with defined interdependencies in the code subject
to review (see our focus group scenario designs in the replication package, Sect. 4.4, for further
details).
   While FG3 is to test accountability when the system is socially complex, multiple teams managing
the same codebase with interdependencie, FG4 aims to explore accountability in technically complex
scenarios within the same team. Transactive memory systems (TMS) theory suggests that in such

ACM Trans. Softw. Eng. Methodol., Vol. 37, No. 4, Article 111. Publication date: August 2018.
Accountability in Code Review: The Role of Intrinsic Drivers and the Impact of LLMs                              111:19


environments, the division of cognitive labor and shared knowledge among team members are
crucial for effective coordination and accountability [120]. To evaluate Phase I findings regarding
accountability in the face of technical complexity, we presented FG4 participants with complex code
snippets of varying quality. This allowed us to test how well our participants maintain accountability
under more technically challenging conditions.
   To mimic real-world conditions and capture discussions in relatable SE settings, we designed each
focus group scenario to reflect typical challenges faced by software engineers in professional settings.
For instance, in FG1, the hierarchical setup of juniors reviewing seniors’ code was structured
to replicate dynamics where authority and experience levels intersect, creating opportunities
to observe potential authority bias. FG2 aims to test whether accountability intensifies when
reviews are visible to broader audiences outside the team. Similarly, in FG3, the cross-team review
configuration was designed to simulate the interdependencies often seen in large-scale collaborative
projects, where multiple teams contribute to a shared codebase. FG4 intended to also evaluate
whether accountability shifts when complexity is higher. Existing literature also informed these
scenarios.
   Admittedly, our scenarios do not represent every possible SE condition, nor does their design
capture the true complexity of real-life circumstances. However, we selected and designed these
scenarios based on potential changes in the social setting introduced by the variables (e.g., hierarchy,
and public reviews), which may compromise the individual and collective levels of accountability.
Our choices are also grounded in theoretical perspectives. We further discuss this threat to validity
in Sect. 7.

   Code generation. We opted for Python to write code snippets subject to reviews in the focus
groups. The choice of Python is rationalized by its widespread acceptance and use in the software
development community. Python’s readability and straightforward [116] syntax make it an ideal
choice to illustrate potential quality issues in a review setting. This choice also facilitates better
focus on quality issues rather than the intricacies of the programming language [35], which may
distract the focus of the discussions. Dagenais and Robillard, and Baxter and Sommerville studies
suggest that using familiar programming languages and frameworks facilitates better understanding
and focus in the scope of software engineering studies [17, 35].
   For the code snippets, we aimed for realistic scenarios. Scenario-based design literature reco-
mmends maintaining realistic scenarios in qualitative research [29]. This approach does not only
mitigate the risk of drifting away from the actual scope of the study but also ensures that the
data collected facilitates a shared understanding with the participants [29]. This approach was
echoed in nursing education literature [28, 64, 107]. Realistic simulation scenarios are used to help
students bridge the gap between theoretical knowledge and practical skills [28, 64, 107]. Realistic
scenarios also improve the ecological validity of the design and its setting, meaning that the data
collected is more relatable [55]. Table 5 summarizes the code snippets for all our focus groups;
further details are available in the replication package (see Sect. 4.4). The ”Ref.” column lists the
snippet file names as they appear in our replication package. All snippets were written by the first
author and reviewed by the third author prior to the focus groups taking place.

4.2.2 LLM-assisted reviews. We asked the participants in the focus groups to volunteer to submit
Python source code that they had authored. We asked for professionally authored code or accepted
and merged contributions to open-source projects. We used ChatGPT 4 for the LLM reviews. We
used this prompt to generate a ChatGPT review: “You are a Python software developer expert.
Conduct a code review of the attached code and provide thorough feedback to the author of the code.”
Eighteen participants submitted their Python code, and five opted not to; still, they contributed

                           ACM Trans. Softw. Eng. Methodol., Vol. 37, No. 4, Article 111. Publication date: August 2018.
                                                                                                                                                    Table 5. Python Code Snippets Used in Focus Groups
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  111:20
                                                                                                Focus Group           Ref.                       Python Code Snippets                                                Main Quality Issues
                                                                                                                      FG1_Scenario_1_Snippet_1   This code snippet processes a list of data, doubling the value of   1. Inefficient handling of different data types.
                                                                                                                                                 integers.                                                           2. Lack of type hinting and docstrings.
                                                                                                FG1- Role hierarchy
                                                                                                                                                                                                                     3. No exception handling for unexpected data types.
                                                                                                                      FG1_Scenario_1_Snippet_2   This code snippet retrieves user data from an API using the         1. Limited error handling; only catches
                                                                                                                                                 requests library.                                                   RequestException.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                     2. Hard coded URL without parameter validation.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                     1. Does not handle filenames without extensions.
                                                                                                                      FG2_Scenario_2_Snippet_1   This code snippet extracts the file extension from a filename.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                     2. No validation for input types.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                     1. Passwords are stored and checked in plain text, which
                                                                                                                                                                                                                     is insecure.
                                                                                                FG2- Public reviews   FG2_Scenario_2_Snippet_2   Authenticates a user against a user database.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                     2. Should use hashed passwords and secure comparison
                                                                                                                                                                                                                     methods.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                     3. No exception handling for dictionary key errors.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                     1. Potential for key errors if category or data fields are
                                                                                                                      FG2_Scenario_2_Snippet_3   Aggregates data records by category.                                missing in any record.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                     2. Could validate input data before processing.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                     3. Inefficient handling of large datasets.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                     1. No error handling for connection establishment
                                                                                                                      FG3_Scenario_3_Snippet_1   Executes a database query and returns the results.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                     failures.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                     2. Could have handled specific database errors more
                                                                                                                                                                                                                     robustly.
                                                                                                FG3- Cross-team
                                                                                                                                                                                                                     1. Exception handling is minimal; could be improved to
                                                                                                reviews               FG3_Scenario_3_Snippet_2   Asynchronously processes data from a queue.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                     handle specific errors.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                     2. Should ensure that data queue operations are safe
                                                                                                                                                                                                                     and handle timeouts.




ACM Trans. Softw. Eng. Methodol., Vol. 37, No. 4, Article 111. Publication date: August 2018.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                     1. Retraining the model within the prediction function
                                                                                                                      FG3_Scenario_3_Snippet_3   Predicts an outcome using a machine learning model.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                     is inefficient.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                     2. Should handle model errors separately and more
                                                                                                                                                                                                                     efficiently.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                     1. No validation for file content structure.
                                                                                                                      FG4_Scenario_4_Snippet_1   This snippet processes data from a file asynchronously.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                     2. Lack of proper error handling for file operations.
                                                                                                FG4- Complex code
                                                                                                                                                                                                                     1. No validation for input URL.
                                                                                                                      FG4_Scenario_4_Snippet_2   This snippet extracts links from a webpage using BeautifulSoup.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                     2. Lack of error handling for HTTP and parsing errors.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  Alami, et al.
Accountability in Code Review: The Role of Intrinsic Drivers and the Impact of LLMs                               111:21


to the discussion part of the LLM review. The five participants chose not to submit code, citing
concerns of making it publicly available, given it was authored in proprietary contexts.
4.2.3 Participant recruitment and selection. We used UpWork7 , a marketplace for freelancing
work. Although we used Prolific successfully in Phase I, the effort of pre-screening and qualifying
candidates was lengthy. In UpWork, by comparison, potential participants disclose their GitHub
and LinkedIn profiles as part of the recruitment process to qualify for the study, which has allowed
for fast and accurate vetting.
   We posted a job description for the study (available in the replication package). We asked
prospects to submit their GitHub and LinkedIn profile links or a copy of their resumes to help us
qualify their skills. We received 56 submissions. Based on the requirements we set in the design of
our focus groups, we selected 24 participants, but only 23 participated. We used similar requirements
as per Phase I. We aimed for a diverse sample while aligning with our focus group design. For
instance, for FG1, we sought participants with varied seniority levels as per the scenario design.
We also examined potential participants’ profiles to ensure recent hands-on experience in code
review and proficiency in Python as evidenced by GitHub contributions or their resumes.
   Table 7 documents the characteristics of the focus group participants, the corresponding focus
group they took part in, and the roles they assumed in the scenario (e.g., junior developer, team
lead, etc.). For example, P17 assumed the role of a junior developer in the first focus group (see Tbl.
3). We were only able to recruit one female participant (P26). We paid each participant $60 for their
participation in the 2-hour focus group.
   We also aimed to match the participants’ career and experience levels with their roles in the
focus groups. For example, P17 played the role of a junior developer in FG1 and also worked as a
junior software engineer at the time of recruitment. Participants are more likely to act naturally
within familiar professional contexts when asked to engage in a setting that closely mirrors their
professional collaborative settings [55, 64].

                             Table 6. Example of Focus Group Interview Questions


 Discussion                 Examples of questions
 component

                            What thoughts or considerations were in your mind while reviewing the code?

                            Can you share your thoughts or feelings during the junior developers’ review?
 Peer-led review (FG1)
                            Were there moments in the review that stood out to you? Why?

                            How do you typically react to feedback in a similar hierarchical team setting?

                            What was your initial reaction to the LLM’s feedback on your code?

                            How does the idea of having an LLM review your code impact your approach to maintaining
 LLM-assisted review        high personal standards?

                            Do you believe that LLM-based reviews can accurately reflect and potentially influence your
                            professional reputation among peers? Why or why not?




7 https://www.upwork.com/



                            ACM Trans. Softw. Eng. Methodol., Vol. 37, No. 4, Article 111. Publication date: August 2018.
                                                                                                                                      Table 7. Participants Characteristics and Their Distribution Across Focus Groups
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 111:22

                                                                                                Group   ID               Role                    Experience   Industry                          Country              Role in the Focus Groups    Review/Author
                                                                                                        P17              Jr. Software Engineer   3-5 years    Mobile Apps development           Hungary              Junior Developer #1         Reviewer
                                                                                                        P18              Lead Java Developer     >12 years    Information Technology services   USA                  Team Lead                   Author
                                                                                                        P19              Sr. Software Engineer   9-11 years   Financial services                Bulgaria             Senior Developer #1         Author
                                                                                                 FG1
                                                                                                        P20              Software Engineer       5-9 years    Technology startup                Germany              Developer                   Reviewer
                                                                                                        P21              Jr. Software Engineer   3-5 years    Global software vendor            UK                   Junior Developer #2         Reviewer
                                                                                                        P22              Tech Lead               >12 years    Motor vehicle manufacturing       Poland               Senior Developer #2         Author
                                                                                                        P23              Software Engineer       3-5 years    Information Technology services   Dominican Republic   Junior Developer #1         Author
                                                                                                        P24              Software Engineer       3-5 years    Information Technology services   India                Junior Developer #2         Reviewer
                                                                                                        P25 (Feedback)   Sr. Software Engineer   >12 years    IT Services and Consulting        Canada               Senior Developer #1         Reviewer
                                                                                                 FG2
                                                                                                        P26 (Feedback)   Sr. Software Engineer   9-11 years   Information Technology services   India                Senior Developer #2         Author
                                                                                                        P27 (Feedback)   Sr. Software Engineer   >12 years    Technology startup                US                   Senior Developer #3         Author
                                                                                                        P28 (Feedback)   Tech Lead               >12 years    Broadcast & media production      US                   Senior Developer #4         Reviewer
                                                                                                        P29              Software Engineer       9-11 years   Medical equipment manufacturing   Hungary              Developer from Team A       Reviewer
                                                                                                        P30 (Feedback)   Software Engineer       9-11 years   eCommerce software development    UK                   Developer from Team B       Author
                                                                                                        P31              Tech Lead               >12 years    Higher education                  Lithuania            Tech Lead from Team A       Author
                                                                                                 FG3
                                                                                                        P32              Sr. Software Engineer   >12 years    IT Services and Consulting        Serbia               Sr. Developer from Team A   Author
                                                                                                        P33              Sr. Software Engineer   >12 years    Software development services     India                Sr. Developer from Team C   Reviewer




ACM Trans. Softw. Eng. Methodol., Vol. 37, No. 4, Article 111. Publication date: August 2018.
                                                                                                        P34              Sr. Software Engineer   >12 years    Public policy advisory            UK                   Senior Developer #1         Author
                                                                                                        P35              Software Engineer       9-11 years   Global software vendor            UK                   Developer #1                Reviewer
                                                                                                        P36 (Feedback)   Software Engineer       6-8 years    IT Services and Consulting        France               Developer #2                Reviewer
                                                                                                 FG4
                                                                                                        P37              Sr. Software Engineer   >12 years    Software development service      Brazil               Senior Developer #2         Author
                                                                                                        P38              Sr. Software Engineer   >12 years    Information Technology services   Serbia               Senior Developer #3         Author
                                                                                                        P39              Sr. Software Engineer   >12 years    Software development service      Canada               Senior Developer #4         Reviewer
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 Alami, et al.
Accountability in Code Review: The Role of Intrinsic Drivers and the Impact of LLMs                              111:23


4.2.4 Data collection. We designed our scenarios for groups of six participants. Prior to each focus
group taking place, we sent detailed instructions to each participant describing the focus group
process and the code they had to review (the instructions sent to the participants are shared in the
replication package).
   To ensure that the code under review would be familiar and accessible to all participants, we
asked them to answer a pre-screening question related to their competence in programming with
Python (see UpWork job ad in the replication package).
   All focus groups were conducted online using Zoom. One participant did not show up to FG3,
yet we managed to conduct that group with minimal impact on its purpose. All focus groups
were audio recorded and transcribed using Otter.ai. The first author facilitated the focus groups in
February 2024. The focus group’s audios generated between 24-27 pages of verbatim each after
transcription, presenting approximately a total of seven hours of audio recordings.
   We deemed four groups with varying scenarios sufficient to cover a spectrum of settings. We
prepared a discussion guide for each focus group to structure the dialogue; however, we remained
flexible during the facilitation and prompted the participants with follow-up questions when
necessary. Table 6 documents an example of questions used to guide the discussion. A detailed and
complete guide is available in the replication package (Sect. 4.4).
   We used a pre-focus group questionnaire to collect data on participants’ intrinsic drivers, i.e., pride,
integrity, reputation, and upholding personal standards, and how they influence their accountability
for code quality. This methodological choice was strategically implemented to mitigate the risk of
social desirability bias [54] and self-censorship [123] within the focus group discussions. We used
the collected data as a reference point to prompt participants during the focus groups, encouraging
them to share their true and authentic thoughts. For example, while most participants in the pre-
focus group questionnaire reported pride in code quality as a key driver for their accountability to
meet quality expectations, the focus group discussion hinted that their pride becomes less relevant
in a group setting. When the researcher prompted the participant to explain the misalignment
between what they previously reported, we learned that pride is tuned down to foster group
consensus. This method is aligned with best practices in qualitative research, which suggest using
pre-collected data and previously expressed views to reduce social desirability bias by encouraging
honest and reflective responses [68, 114].
   When the participants’ discussions diverged from the pre-reported answers, we asked them
to provide an explanation. For instance, when some participants’ inputs during the focus group
discussion did not align, the moderator prompted them to clarify. This was more prominent
for “pride in code quality” and “professional integrity.” Then, we learned from the participants’
explanation that their intrinsic drivers are regulated to accommodate the collective accountability
and consensus.



   Peer-led review. We assigned the roles to the participants and asked them to prepare their reviews
prior to the focus groups. The first hour of the session was used to share and discuss the feedback.
Then, the researcher prompted the participants to elaborate and discuss how they felt accountable
for the quality of the code. We used a pre-defined discussion guide across all sessions, which
is available in the replication package. However, we allowed for some fluidity in the discussion
to facilitate a natural conversation, where participants could express their thoughts freely. This
approach is aligned with qualitative research best practices, which recommend a balance between
structured guidance and flexible exploration [92].


                           ACM Trans. Softw. Eng. Methodol., Vol. 37, No. 4, Article 111. Publication date: August 2018.
111:24                                                                                                                 Alami, et al.


  LLM review. In the second part of the focus groups, we shared the reviews generated by ChatGPT
with the participants, then asked them to reflect on the comments. Similarly to the first part, the
researcher guided the discussion using a pre-defined guide for this part of the session.
4.2.5 Feedback session. After the analysis of Phase II data was completed, we conducted a feedback
session on our findings [3] with six participants from Phase II, annotated with asterisks in Tbl. 7.
The purpose of this session is to collect feedback on the findings and ensure they resonate with
our participants [20]. During the session, we presented the findings in a scenario-like manner to
ease comprehension and relatability to the participants. Our findings received support from the
participants, and we did not deem revising our analysis necessary. The transcript of the session
and the scenarios used are available in the replication package. The session was carried out by the
first author on the first week of March 2024.

4.3      Data Analysis and Integration

                                     Table 8. Example of RQ1 Pattern Codes


   Pattern codes                  First Cycle codes          Examples from the data

                                  Code quality               “So I have to write good quality code, good code, the good
                                                             code, which is working and my teammates are happy with”
                                                             (P11).

                                  Code maintainability       “So talking about that if I am accountable to the code quality,
                                                             because suppose some other developer takes over me, or
   Code quality                                              maybe someone has to extend the functionality, it should be
                                                             very quick. And like it should be in a modular fashion. So,
                                                             that is why we focus on code quality ...” (P12).

                                  Code readability           “... sometimes if my code is reviewed by my senior engineer,
                                                             sometimes even if the rule is not followed, but if code is
                                                             readable. And if there is no very big, silly mistakes, you can
                                                             say they pass the code reviews.” (P11).

                                  Accountable for code       “... you have to be accountable for your code ...” P(6).
   Individual accountability
                                  Accountability to self     “You know, just accountability towards myself” P(7).

                                  Professional integrity     “ ... Integrity as in a general sense ... I think [it’s s] core value
                                                             for me not doing something the wrong way” (P7).

                                  Professional reputation    “If I’m working somewhere, I think that I should have a
                                                             good image that is a good employee is getting good results
   Intrinsic drivers
                                                             is writing good quality code” (P11).

                                  Pride in code quality      “I believe the primary motivation for achieving high-quality
                                                             code comes from within. It’s about the personal satisfaction
                                                             and pride I feel in my work” (P14).



   We used the same process to analyze both interview and focus group datasets, first analyzing
interviews, then focus groups as per our two-phased design. Our analysis employed inductive
thematic analysis, following the guidelines from Miles et al. [85] and Saldaña [104] to analyze the
interview data. The guidelines recommend two phases: (1) First Cycle and (2) Second Cycle [85, 104].

ACM Trans. Softw. Eng. Methodol., Vol. 37, No. 4, Article 111. Publication date: August 2018.
Accountability in Code Review: The Role of Intrinsic Drivers and the Impact of LLMs                                                            111:25



                                Phase I                                                                      Phase II


                             Four additional                                     Focus group
                               interviews                                          design                                     Feedback session
                            For greater diversity in                            We crafted various
                            our sample, particularly                             configurations to                                We organized a
                            to include more female                            mimic real-world code                           feedback session with
                                perspectives, we                              reviews, incorporating                           six participants from
                               supplemented the                                   factors such as                               Phase II, where we
                             previous study with 4                            hierarchy levels within                         sought their feedback
                             additional interviews.                           teams, and cross-team                             on our conclusions.
                                                                                      review.

            01                                                03                                               05
                                     02                                               04                                              06
      In this interview-
    based study (N = 16),                                                                               Upon the completion
       we investigated                                 We re-analyzed the                                  of the 4 focus
    broad accountability                               entire data (N = 16)                             groups, we analyzed
    in SE with a focus on                              with an emphasis on                                the data with an
        the software                                      this study RQ1.                                 emphasis on RQ2
        engineer role.                                                                                    and revised RQ1.
                                                         Re-analyzing                                     Focus groups
    A broad study on                                       the data
   accountability in SE                                                                                   data analysis




                                               Fig. 2. A summary of our research process.


The iterative approach of these guidelines allowed us to move between the data and emerging
codes, which facilitated better monitoring of saturation.
   First Cycle. In this phase of the coding, data “chunks” or segments are assigned labels or codes
that represent their meanings. We used an inductive coding approach to derive codes directly from
the data without imposing any preconceived notions. This approach allowed us to gain data-driven
insights contextualized to SE.
   The first author led the first phase of coding and induced a preliminary set of codes. The initial
list of codes was then reviewed by the second and third authors, who provided feedback, proposed
new codes, and suggested modifications to existing labels. Following this review, the first author
integrated the feedback and proposed a final list of codes. This collaborative and iterative process
allowed us to refine our initial coding efforts and also ensured a robust and consistent coding
scheme. This enhances the credibility and analytical process of our conclusions [85].
   Second Cycle. In this second phase of coding, we evolved the detailed list of the First Cycle codes
into a consolidated thematic structure [104], known as Pattern Codes [85]. This condensing exercise
is based on codes that share themes, patterns, or logical characteristics. The first author led this
phase, with subsequent reviews and input from the second and third authors to ensure a unified
perspective and reach consensus. Table 8 documents examples of some Pattern Codes and their
corresponding First Cycle code and quotes from the data.
   To mitigate the risk of social desirability bias (responses favored by the researchers and other
participants) [54], we explicitly did not use Phase I Pattern Codes in the design of the discussion
guides for Phase II (focus groups). During focus group discussions, without being led towards
specific responses, participants were encouraged to reflect on how their personal standards, pride,
reputation, and professional integrity affect their approach to code review and feedback, based on
their responses in a pre-focus group questionnaire (see Sect. 4.2).
  Methodological Triangulation. The use of two methods across sequential phases allowed us to
use methodological triangulation [93]. By comparing and integrating insights across methods, we

                                  ACM Trans. Softw. Eng. Methodol., Vol. 37, No. 4, Article 111. Publication date: August 2018.
111:26                                                                                          Alami, et al.


refined and contextualized themes, leading to a more informed interpretation. This comparative
process enabled us to build a more comprehensive understanding of our themes and the processes
we identified. For instance, in Phase I interviews, participants identified pride as an intrinsic
driver of accountability, particularly when writing code. However, Phase II focus group discussions
revealed a self-regulatory process during collaborative contexts. We learned from Phase II data
that individual pride becomes less pronounced to align with collective accountability.
   Integration of Phases I and II. We merged the findings of Phases I and II after Phase II was
completed (including data analysis) and during the writing of this manuscript. This part of the
investigation is referred to as “interpretation of the related outcomes” [32]. Section 5 presents
the results and discusses how far Phase II findings corroborate earlier results in Phase I. We also
explore how the outcomes of both stages sync and complement one another.
   This integration process entails juxtaposing the findings from Phase I with those from Phase II
to identify consistencies, discrepancies, and complementary and new insights. However, in the case
of our study, we find mostly complementary and new insights. For example, self-regulation, a new
pattern code that has emerged in this exercise, shows that software engineers regulate or tune down
some of their intrinsic drivers to accommodate collective consensus and shared accountability. The
data collected in the LLM-led reviews also helped us to understand new insights on the impact of
AI on accountability.
   During this process, we employed a comparative method to analyze how the themes and patterns
identified in Phase I were supported, expanded, or challenged by the data from Phase II and
whether some of these insights changed the findings. For example, while collective accountability
has emerged as findings in Phase I analysis, we only learned that it transpires once the code
becomes subject to collective review. This method aligns with Creswell et al. recommendations
for mixed-methods research [32], which emphasize the importance of integrating qualitative data
analysis to enhance the depth and breadth of understanding of a particular phenomenon.
   To recap this section, figure 2 illustrates our research process. We carried out this study in two
phases: an interview-based investigation (N = 16) and a focus group study. For Phase I, to enhance
the diversity of our sample, we conducted four additional interviews with female participants. The
data from these interviews were re-analyzed with a refined focus on RQ1. In Phase II, we designed
and conducted focus groups of code reviews. The data from these focus groups were analyzed,
emphasizing RQ2. Finally, we conducted a feedback session with six participants from Phase II,
which provided further validation of our findings.
  Informed consent. Informed consents from the interviewees and the focus groups’ participants
were obtained prior to them taking place in accordance with best practices and institutional
requirements of the authors’ institutions.

4.4      Replication package
We share our data and other artifacts at link.8 Interviewees consented to sharing anonymized
interview and focus group transcripts.

5     FINDINGS
Our findings reveal a dynamic and evolving concept: accountability in code review. Figure 3
encapsulates this central idea, illustrating the transitional process from individual to collective
accountability as well as the nuanced behaviors that underpin this shift. Accountability has a dual
nature. First, it begins as an intrinsic motivation, driven by personal standards, pride in code quality,
8 https://doi.org/10.5281/zenodo.14601149



ACM Trans. Softw. Eng. Methodol., Vol. 37, No. 4, Article 111. Publication date: August 2018.
Accountability in Code Review: The Role of Intrinsic Drivers and the Impact of LLMs                                                111:27




  Individual Accountability
                                                                   Accountability
   • While writing code, individual
     accountability is partly driven
     by:
                                        1                         for Code Quality
         • Pride in code quality
         • Professional integrity
         • Personal standards
         • Reputation



      Peer Code Review Initiated           2                                                      5 Collective Accountability
        • Self-regulation of pride and integrity                                                       • Peers reciprocate accountability
        • Personal standards and reputation                                                              for code quality during the review
          persist seeking social validation                                                            • Self-regulation occurs to

                                                            3                        4                   accommodate reciprocity

                                          Self-regulation                                Social Validation
                                            • Downregulation of pride and
                                            • Reorientation of integrity                   • Personal standards and reputation
                                                                                             persist seeking social validation



              Fig. 3. The process of accountability for code quality combining Phase I & II findings.


professional integrity, and reputation. As code review unfolds, these intrinsic drivers are modulated
to facilitate collaboration and the collective pursuit for quality, culminating in a shared sense of
responsibility for code quality.
   The conceptual map captured in Fig. 3 highlights how accountability evolves from the individual
to the collective level through self-regulation and social validation in peer-led reviews. The
intricate relationship between individual and collective dimensions of accountability is complex
and underpinned with individual and collective behaviors, which are adapted in a shifting social
process.
   In the remaining of the section, we first present the findings of RQ1 across two subsections. In
subsection 5.1, we present how individual’s intrinsic drivers influence their individual-level sense
of accountability for code quality (stage numbered 1 in Fig. 3) and in subsection 5.2, we explain
the transition we observed in our data from individual to collective levels sense of accountability
(stages numbered 2-5 in Fig. 3). Then we present and discuss the results of RQ2 with respect to
LLMs.

5.1     RQ1: Intrinsic Drivers of Individual Accountability for Code Quality
We define the intrinsic drivers of individual accountability for code quality as they emerged from
our data:
   Personal standards: A self-imposed commitment to surpass organizational or team code quality
expectations. These expectations are deeply individualistic and often involve striving for perfection
or exceptional outcomes, “... to me, like I kind of set myself standards ... I want to do it, like the highest
quality that whatever I can deliver” (P8).
   Professional integrity: A commitment to doing the “right thing” by adhering to agreed-upon
standards for code quality, even in the absence of external enforcement. This intrinsic driver
captures a sense of responsibility to one’s team, organization and future developers, “... my integrity
matters, because I want my code to survive beyond my tenure on that project” (P15).
   Pride in code quality: A personal sense of satisfaction and fulfillment derived from producing
high-quality work. Pride motivates engineers, in our sample, to deliver high code quality, “I believe
the primary motivation for high quality code comes from within it’s personal satisfaction and pride
one feel in their work” (P14).

                                   ACM Trans. Softw. Eng. Methodol., Vol. 37, No. 4, Article 111. Publication date: August 2018.
111:28                                                                                          Alami, et al.


   Professional reputation: The recognition and respect gained from producing reliable and
high-quality work, which is also seen as a strategy for career development. Participants frequently
referenced their reputation as a motivator for accountability, “... if my code quality is good, my
image as a developer is good ... let’s say ... you have to cut out of by 20% of developers in your team,
okay. I feel that I should be amongst the good ones that my number doesn’t come in top bottom 20% of
the developer in the team” (P11).
   Recall RQ1 sought to understand how software engineers’ intrinsic drivers influence their sense
of accountability for code quality. Our data shows a strong indication that code review is an
important accountability mechanism for code quality. P11’s statement shows that code review is
not merely a formality but an accountability check for code quality: “... code review is a big thing,
if I’m writing some code, and if it is getting passed by single people ... if there are any bugs or any
mistakes, I am also accountable for those mistakes. And my senior people will also be accountable
because they have also passed the code to the repo and they have not noticed the quality problems”
(P11).
   We found that software engineers’ sense of accountability towards code quality is partly driven by
four intrinsic factors: personal standards, professional integrity, pride in code quality, and reputation
(stage numbered 1 in Fig. 3). These traits collectively promote a sense of individual accountability
for code quality. This sense of accountability is predominately activated when engineers write
code.
   As illustrated in Fig. 3, these intrinsic drivers contribute to the foundation of individual accounta-
bility in the broader process of accountability for code quality (stages numbered 1-5 in Fig. 3).
The early stages of writing software code activate these drivers. They partially drive individual
accountability to meet code quality standards. As depicted in Fig. 3, once individuals interact with
peers and feedback mechanisms during code review, accountability transitions into a collective
level.
Personal standards: For many software engineers in our sample, accountability for code quality
is driven by self-imposed personal standards for quality and going beyond internally agreed or
established standards. P9 demonstrates this behavior, expressing a strong personal commitment to
high quality: “I like to produce some high-quality software engineering ... I’m feeling accountable ... I
feel like it’s my responsibility to do my best in order to produce something with quality” (P9). P8, on
the other hand, strives for “perfection”, demonstrating high personal standards. When she does not
meet her own standards, a feeling of guilt arises, underscoring the strong emotional connection
that she has with the quality of her code. She stated: “... for me personally, I always want ... the perfect
code ... it feels like you’re kind of bad feeling is to be told your work is subpar quality” (P8). These
accounts depict a picture of software engineers who seem to be deeply invested and accountable
for the quality of their code. Their accountability appears to be driven by their personal standards.
   How personal standards drive the feeling of accountability for code quality is well-established
in our interviewees’ accounts. For example, when P6, P8, and P14 were asked why they feel
accountable for the quality of their code, they respectively answered: “I just feel like a level of
professional accountability. I just want to make sure I’m an admin to myself ... I can live with myself
knowing that I did my best” (P6), “I want to build like the best quality that possible that whatever
they’re beyond expectation” (P8), “Personal standards I think ... do my job well.” (P14).
   In conclusion, for the engineers in our sample, this intrinsic quality motivates them to hold
themselves accountable, not just to external expectations but to their own self-imposed standards.
Professional integrity: Professional integrity, as it appears in our data, is a commitment to doing
the right thing by proactively pursuing and adhering to standards for quality set by the team or the
organization. For P7, it is about avoiding the wrong thing. He stated: “I was thinking of integrity as,
in a general sense, not doing something the wrong way. If you’re doing something the wrong way, you

ACM Trans. Softw. Eng. Methodol., Vol. 37, No. 4, Article 111. Publication date: August 2018.
Accountability in Code Review: The Role of Intrinsic Drivers and the Impact of LLMs                              111:29


shouldn’t do it at all” (P7). P7’s integrity implies not just completing tasks but completing them
correctly, i.e., having integrity.
    P14 linked professional integrity directly with accountability for code quality: “as a developer,
several factors contribute to my sense of accountability for code quality. Professional integrity and a
commitment to producing high-quality work are among the key elements that drive my accountability,
and the impact of my code on the end user is among the key elements that drive my accountability”
(P14).
    Professional integrity also appears to be an ethos, a professional responsibility owed to other
developers as well as to oneself. P16 explained: “... senior management just wants results. They don’t
care ... but I feel myself accountable ... no one will ask me if the code is not clean. But if I’m not be
accountable, then the project will be a mess ... then new developers will not be able to understand
anything. And it will be a big problem for the organization. So that’s why I am taking care of the
accountability” (P16). Together, these accounts indicate that professional integrity seems to drive
software engineers’ individual accountability for code quality.
Pride in code quality: While integrity is about doing the right thing, pride is an outcome engineers
seek for personal satisfaction achieved from writing quality code. P13 explains: “so I write code, and
I feel like my reward is like internal rewards ... because I produced good code and I’m proud of it ... if I
write good code, then I feel happy, then I should write more good code, because I feel proud and more
happy more often” (P13).
    When P7 was asked to explain why he feels accountable for delivering code that “works properly,”
he explained: “you have to have some integrity in your work and and pride in your work” (P7).
    These accounts illustrate how our interviewees derive personal satisfaction from their work,
which in turn seems to maintain a sense of individual accountability for their code quality.
Professional reputation: Phase I data showed that software engineers perceive their professional
reputation as a crucial part of their career, and the quality of their code is tightly linked to their
reputation. P14 bluntly explained how her professional reputation is “closely tied” to the quality of
her code: “... maintaining a positive professional reputation is closely tied to the quality of the code I
produce” (P14).
    P12 eloquently demonstrates this motivation. When she was asked why she “cares” about the
quality of her code, she replied, “so I care less about salary and more about the professional image
because I think that is what will be useful in the long run and not the salary. Because if we maintain
a good image, one day or another, my salary will get up” (P12). This account shows a strategic
approach to career, where the reputation of writing quality code becomes an asset to use in future
opportunities.
    It seems that software engineers feel accountable for the quality of their code because they
carefully cultivate and protect their reputation through consistent and high-quality code. By writing
high-quality code, engineers reputation becomes a reflection of their dedication, skill, and reliability.
P15 sums up, when prompted to explain why she feels accountable for meeting high coding
standards: “I don’t want to have a bad reputation in the future” (P15).
    This drive to maintain one’s professional reputation is tightly linked to a sense of individual
accountability for code quality in our data. For example, when P6 was asked why he feels accountable
for the quality of his work, he replied: “if anything goes wrong, it falls on me ... it makes me look bad ...
if there’s, you know, major bugs found” (P6). When prompted to explain the reward he received from
being accountable, he stated: “I think just the recognition” (P6). This account shows the intrinsic
link between professional reputation and the sense of individual accountability for code quality
amongst the interviewees in our sample. In the case of P6, it seems that his concern to compromise
his reputation drives him to adhere to quality standards and take responsibility for his work. The
recognition he receives may reinforce his professional reputation. In sum, the pursuit to maintain a

                           ACM Trans. Softw. Eng. Methodol., Vol. 37, No. 4, Article 111. Publication date: August 2018.
111:30                                                                                          Alami, et al.


strong professional reputation compels engineers, in our sample, to feel accountable for the quality
of their code.

5.2      RQ1: A Transition From Individual to Collective Accountability
Figure 3 shows how we conceptualize our key findings. We found a transition in who is accountable
during code review and the dynamics in the shift from individual to collective accountability. This
transition is a complex interaction of behaviors and collaborative influences. In this section, we
unpack these dynamics, grounding each stage of the transition in evidence from our focus group
data.
     Our analysis shows that “collective” is not merely the aggregation of individual contributions
in the focus groups but an emergent property of a social process of code review and shared
commitments that elevate the sense of accountability from personal achievements to team-based
outcomes. In our findings, “collective” represents the coalescence of individual behaviors, norms,
and responsibilities into a cohesive group dynamic, which we observed in the focus groups.
     Individual accountability influenced partly by intrinsic driver (stage 1 in Fig. 3 numbered 1
at the top left of the figure). As code review begins, pride is downregulated (stages 2 & 3 in Fig.
3, numbered 2 and 3) to allow for seamless integration of feedback and the transition to shared
accountability for code quality. P27 explains, “so when delivery [of feedback] was very good, it’s less
about pride but more about holding each other accountable for our quality” (FG2, P27).
     Professional integrity is also modulated (stages 2 & 3 in Fig. 3) to accommodate the collaborative
efforts toward code quality. It shifts from the individual motivation of doing the right thing to the
behavior of avoiding defensiveness and constructively engaging with feedback. P22 explains that
receiving feedback during the focus group was not a threat to his professional integrity, “... when
I want to write good code, I try to, and then it turns out that that’s actually not so good. And then I
get corrected, and I write better code, and I’m better next time. So I don’t see it as like challenging my
professional integrity ... I see it as an opportunity” (FG1, P22). This response shows how professional
integrity, an individual trait, is regulated during the review process. By framing feedback as an
opportunity to improve, P22 demonstrates an alignment of his individual motivation with collective
goals, fostering collaborative accountability for code quality.
     As the review continues, engineers’ personal standards and reputation persist in the review
process in pursuit of social validation (stage 4 in Fig. 3). Software engineers display their personal
standards to their peers, seeking recognition to maintain a reputation within the team. P17 explains,
“... we also like to show and demonstrate our knowledge to other people, that they missed something
and we found it... So this also like, I think, improves the impression of other teammates of me as well”
(FG1, P17). P27 explains that code quality is an investment in building his reputation, “ ... I want to
be a better coder or be as good of a coder as I can be. And his [reviewer] feedback helps me with that,
you know, which in turn leads to more accountability for my part, you know. A better reputation ...
and my code quality got better and being known as a good coder” (FG2, P27).
     This harmonization of intrinsic drivers is to achieve alignment with the team’s consensus and
expectations, as accountability is no longer solely individual but collective (stage 5 in Fig. 3).
P20 explains, “so, I personally see code review as a part of the software quality. So basically, when a
code ... is reviewed ... then both the author of that PR and reviewers are like accountable” (FG1, P20).
P25 rationalizes the reciprocity of accountability, when the review takes place, “I’m doing a review,
what this means is ... we need to hold each other accountable and ourselves accountable ... So if I review
something and I approve it ... I’m also on the line at that point, not just the author” (FG2, P25).
     In the example of P25’s comment, the recognition of peers as key stakeholders in the review
process further supports this transition from an individual sense of accountability to a shared one.

ACM Trans. Softw. Eng. Methodol., Vol. 37, No. 4, Article 111. Publication date: August 2018.
Accountability in Code Review: The Role of Intrinsic Drivers and the Impact of LLMs                              111:31


   The culmination of these dynamics, as depicted in stage 5 of Fig. 3, is a shift to collective accounta-
bility. This stage is characterized by shared responsibility, where both authors and reviewers
internalize accountability for the quality of the code.
   Collective accountability, as observed in our data, primarily involves those participating in the
code review process, but it also extends in practice to the broader development team collaborating
to ensure code quality. We identified this transition in our data further in the linguistic shift among
participants, which demonstrates a transition from individual to collective accountability during the
review process. For example, participants moved from referencing their accountability individually
in the interviews, e.g., “you know, just accountability towards myself” (P6) and “I just care about
my work” (P10), to using inclusive language such as “we” and “each other,” signifying shared
responsibility. One participant explicitly noted, “we need to hold each other accountable and ourselves
accountable” (FG2, P25). Similarly, another participant emphasized, “When a code... is reviewed...
then both the author of that PR and reviewers are like accountable (FG1, P20). These shifts in language
underscore the evolution of accountability into a collective endeavor fostered in peer reviews.
   The sense of accountability among authors is often tied to their individual contributions,
emphasizing ownership over their work. For instance, authors expressed pride and satisfaction
when producing error-free and high-quality code. Their accountability was heightened by the desire
to meet or exceed expectations set by themselves or by their teams. On the other hand, reviewers
perceive accountability through the lens of collective responsibility. Reviewers focus on ensuring
that the code aligns with team standards and best practices, emphasizing collective ownership of
code. Reviewers often exhibit accountability by reciprocating the responsibility shown in the effort
of the authors, as demonstrated in the code quality. If not, by providing constructive feedback to
improve the code quality. For example, in the quotes shared above, P11 (author) emphasized their
accountability as an author, stating, “... if there are any bugs or mistakes, I am accountable because
I wrote the code. Conversely, P25 (reviewer) highlighted his perspective: “When I approve a pull
request, I am also accountable. If there is an issue later, it reflects on me as well.
   In sum, the focus group data analysis revealed a transition from individual to collective accounta-
bility during the code review process. While authoring code, individual accountability for its quality
is partly driven by intrinsic factors such as pride, professional integrity, personal standards, and
reputation. As code review progresses, these intrinsic drivers are modulated to facilitate feedback
integration and collaboration. Subsequently, the focus shifts from individual to shared accounta-
bility. During the review, software engineers appear to seek social validation from their peers.
This behavior is exhibited through showcasing personal standards in coding, which also serves
an investment in maintaining professional reputation. It appears that the process culminates in a
collective sense of accountability, where both code authors and reviewers share responsibility for
the code quality.

5.3 RQ2: LLM Disruption to Collective Accountability
RQ2 sought to understand how the introduction of an LLM-assisted review may impact the
traditional fabric of peer-led review, especially accountability for code quality. We found that the
introduction of an LLM (specifically, a large language model based assistant such as ChatGPT) into
the social system of code review causes a disruption to the inherent social dynamics of the process
and to the transition of accountability from individual to collective. This disruption is caused by
four factors: Absence of reciprocity of accountability, human interactions, social validation,
and lack of trust in LLM technology.
   The transition to collective accountability (stage 5 in Fig. 3) is disrupted by the LLM, because of
the absence of reciprocity. Software engineers in our sample described the LLM as a “machine”
that cannot be held accountable, e.g., “I would not take its [ChatGPT] suggestions as seriously as a

                           ACM Trans. Softw. Eng. Methodol., Vol. 37, No. 4, Article 111. Publication date: August 2018.
111:32                                                                                           Alami, et al.


coworker, simply because you cannot hold the model accountable” (FG2, P25). P26 echoes this view:
“now if LLM is reviewing my code, then I’ll be the only person responsible ... you cannot blame or hold
the LLM accountable” (FG2, P26).
    This disruption also occurs because software engineers’ sense of accountability for their code
quality is deeply rooted in the human interactions inherent to code review. For example, P35
perceives human interactions as a fundamental driver of his accountability, and code review is not
merely a procedural task, “the human interaction would actually make me feel more accountable”
(FG4, P35).
    LLM-assisted code review also challenges the social validation in the process. Code review
is more than a technical or procedural event; its role extends to a process of social validation,
where engineers seek peer recognition and personal satisfaction. P36 asserts, “... there will be less
accountability. Because there is no reputation in the game. There is no personal pride in the game.
There is absolutely not that... with LLM, there is less accountability” (FG4, P36). P31 explains that he
will miss the personal satisfaction (i.e., “joy”) he experiences when he receives positive feedback
from his peers: “I wouldn’t get the same joy. Because it’s just a machine” (FG3, P31). LLM-assisted
code review may challenge the deeply ingrained social validation integral to the traditional peer
review process.
    In contrast to an LLM (just a “machine”), engineers also seek and value the human touch
associated with the feedback, “my concern before reading the review was that it’s not a human being
... I probably would still prefer a human interaction” (FG3, P30). Similar sentiment shared by P31, “I
would just still appreciate the more human at this point ... I could just provide more political review
to make the reviewer happy and be kind to them.” (FG3, P31). This preference shows the inherent
human need for social connection and validation, which enhances engagement and trust within
collaborative environments. The desire for human interaction reflects a deeper value placed on
peers feedback exchanges, which fosters a more human and meaningful review process to software
engineers.
    Finally, our participants appear not to trust in LLM technology (as of early 2024!). Note that
all of our informants reported using LLMs on a daily basis, so unfamiliarity is not the explanation
for this. They cited limitations discouraging them from considering it equal to their peers. P27
bluntly asserts: “It’s [ChatGPT] not a real thing ... it has no idea in terms of context what it’s predicting
... And I’m not accountable to it” (FG2, P27). P30 corroborates: “ChatGPT is not the word of God... it’s
not something that you should trust” (FG3, P30). This is mostly due to a perceived lack of shared
understanding of the code’s context or intent. P20 said: “some of those [comments] are not like,
applicable since it [ChatGPT] does not see the rest of the code, and it doesn’t know the full codebase”
(FG1, P20).
    The trust issue was persistent in the focus group discussions, despite the overwhelming acknow-
ledgment among the participants of the high quality of the LLM’s reviews. During the fourth group
discussion, one participant appreciated the LLM highlighting security errors in his code and the
overall quality of the LLM’s review, “there were some security feedback, considerations ... in case
maybe I didn’t think of that it might be something I would think of it now ... I think it [LLM-generated
feedback] was generally good” (FG4, P37). P17 eachoed similar assessment of the LLM’s feedback,
“It [LLM feedback] was quite great. I was impressed how, from the code, it connected information and
summarize, but the function that’s also it gave really good feedback and suggestions on how to improve
the code” (FG1, P17).
    The disruption we observed not only impacts the accountability process, but also influences the
level of engagement with the LLM-generated feedback in comparison to that of peers. For instance,
one participant account indicates selective consideration of the code improvement suggested by
the LLM compared to their peers. He stated: “I think my behavior would be a bit different [for LLM’s

ACM Trans. Softw. Eng. Methodol., Vol. 37, No. 4, Article 111. Publication date: August 2018.
Accountability in Code Review: The Role of Intrinsic Drivers and the Impact of LLMs                              111:33


review] ... I might not take it. Like I might not consider it incorporating ... unless it is a very big issue”
(FG1, P21).
   However, our participants praised the educational value of an LLM, and its ability to be leveraged
for filtering obvious errors. For example, P31 describes ChatGPT’s review of his code as “educative”
(FG3, P31). Our analysis shows that there is a willingness to use LLM as the first reviewer to filter
obvious errors; P18 suggests: “I would not use something like ChatGPT as the only mechanism for
code reviews; I would rather use it as a first level of review before I submit my PR for my peers to
review” (FG1, P18).

6   DISCUSSION AND IMPLICATIONS
We begin this section with an interpretation of our findings through the lens of self-determination
theory (SDT) [42], as well as how we contribute to existing accountability theories [52, 62]. Then,
we highlight the implications of our findings on practice and future research directions.
   SDT is relevant for the context of our study because it provides a robust reference framework for
understanding the intrinsic motivations that underpin software engineers’ sense of accountability
for code quality. Specifically, SDT’s focus on autonomy, competence, and relatedness [42] resonates
with our findings. For instance, the absence of reciprocity in accountability in LLM interactions
challenges engineers’ sense of relatedness, a core pillar of SDT.
   Accountability theories [52, 62] cover the mechanisms by which individuals feel responsible
for their actions within a social and organizational context. This theoretical lens allows us to
understand accountability in the context of SE and how the introduction of AI technology alters
traditional peer review accountability. Accountability theories provide a reliable foundation to
understand the behaviors we observed in this study. This well-established theoretical background
is also a good reference to understand to what extent SE aligns or deviates from other contexts.

   Self-determination theory (SDT). SDT suggests that the pursuit of goals and their attainment is
driven by basic psychological needs, competence, relatedness, and autonomy [42]. These needs are
“innate psychological nutriments that are essential for ongoing psychological growth, integrity,
and well-being,” rather than learned or physiological [42].
   Competence is a propensity to make an impact on the individual’s environment as well as to
attain valued outcomes within it [42]. Intrinsically driven behaviors arise from individuals’ desire
for competence and the need to be self-determined [42]. Our findings echo similar principles,
demonstrating that software engineers’ intrinsic drivers such as professional integrity, personal
standards, pride in code quality, and reputation significantly influence their sense of accountability
for code quality. This highlights the importance of nurturing the individual sense of competence
and autonomy amongst software engineers to foster a stronger accountability for code quality.
These findings are also a call to appreciate the psychological underpinnings of accountability for
an important outcome like code quality in software engineering. It challenges the assumption that
code quality maybe achievable solely by promoting standards, tools, and processes.
   Relatedness is the feeling of connection to others, “to love and care, and to be loved and cared for”
[15, 101]. SDT posits that intrinsic motives flourish in an environment where individuals have a
sense of secure relatedness and support [42]. This explains some of our findings. Software engineers
expect their peers to be supportive, empowering them to show greater intrinsic motivation for the
accountability of their code quality.
   Autonomy “refers to volition, the organismic desire to self-organize experience and behavior
and to have activity be concordant with one’s integrated sense of self” [42]. SDT suggests that
fostering a sense of autonomy enhances intrinsic motivation and leads to better performance and
well-being [42, 96]. By cultivating an environment that supports competence, relatedness, and

                           ACM Trans. Softw. Eng. Methodol., Vol. 37, No. 4, Article 111. Publication date: August 2018.
111:34                                                                                          Alami, et al.


autonomy, SE teams and organizations may enhance the intrinsic drivers of software engineers,
leading to a heightened sense of accountability for code quality.
   These findings may indicate that the current focus on external controls (e.g., quality assurance
practices) and incentives (e.g., promotion), as exemplified by industry-oriented metrics approaches
such as DORA [49] need to be combined with socially-embedded antecedents to drive code quality.
For example, Alami and colleagues reported that psychological safety, or team level perception
of non-judgmental interactions, openness and emotional security, also enhances team’s ability to
pursue quality expectations [6].
   Although SDT claims that intrinsic motivations are goal-directed behavior either in an autonomous
or controlled environment [42], our work shows that is not always the case. Intrinsic drivers can also
manifest for an outcome that is not necessarily tangible yet, such as feeling and showing accounta-
bility for code quality. In our work, the ultimate outcome would be better code quality; however,
we have only demonstrated evidence for behaviors showing accountability for this outcome. Hence,
we contribute to SDT by highlighting the nuanced ways intrinsic motivation can drive behaviors
focused on accountability, even when the end goal is not immediately realized.


   Accountability theory. The conceptualization of accountability captures both the formal and
the informal manifestation of accountability [52]. While informal accountability is formalized
by institutionalized rules and policies [51], informal (grassroots accountability or accountability
to peers [2]) uses rules and norms outside the formal organizational context [124]. Informal
accountability is grounded in unofficial expectations and discretionary behaviors that result from
the socialization of network members [99]. Shared norms also lay out an informal code of conduct
used by group members as a reference for appropriate and inappropriate behaviors [99]. Romzek
et al. found that informal accountability in nonprofit networks is fostered by trust, reciprocity, and
respect for institutional turf [99]. Similarly, informal accountability is exercised through evaluations
that result in either rewards or sanctions [98], but remain informal in nature. For example, rewards
can be in the form of favors and public recognition, and sanctions may lead to reduced reputation,
loss of opportunities within the group, and exclusion from future information sharing [98].
   Our study contributes to existing accountability theories by showing that felt or individual
accountability is temporal in the context of teamwork. In the context of SE, this individual accounta-
bility persists while writing code and prior to the review, then shifts to a collective level to become
a shared accountability. This temporality is interrupted when an accountability mechanism such
as code review takes place. We also contribute to this theoretical landscape by identifying some
individual accountability antecedents. Hall et al. state that “relatively little empirical work is
available to inform our perspectives of antecedents to accountability. Many constructs that would
seem to be antecedents to felt accountability” [61]. In the context of SE, our findings suggest that
intrinsic drivers like professional integrity, personal standards, pride in code quality, and reputation
serve as key antecedents to individual accountability. This understanding can inform the design
of more nuanced accountability mechanisms that capitalize on personal motivations, ultimately
improving individual and collective levels of accountability for code quality.
   Our research also synergizes SDT and accountability theories by elucidating that intrinsic
drivers linked to the psychological needs outlined in SDT—competence, relatedness, and autonomy
[42]—play a role in fostering accountability among software engineers. This connection suggests
that nurturing these intrinsic drivers may lead to a stronger individual and collective sense of
accountability for code quality. Our findings imply that integrating SDT principles into team-level
accountability frameworks and mechanisms may promote more effective and psychologically
supportive environments conducive to enhancing accountability for code quality.


ACM Trans. Softw. Eng. Methodol., Vol. 37, No. 4, Article 111. Publication date: August 2018.
Accountability in Code Review: The Role of Intrinsic Drivers and the Impact of LLMs                              111:35


6.1    Industry Implications
For implications on practice, we discuss four key takeaways from this study and their implications:
(1) code quality through accountability, (2) promoting collective code Ownership, (3) Aligning SE
education with its social dynamics, and (4) integration strategies for LLMs.

   Code Quality Through Accountability. Even though code review has been extensively investigated
[11, 36], the power of social dynamics inherent in the process to foster accountability for code
quality has been underestimated. Our study shows that ensuring code quality extends beyond a
technical endeavor. The pursuit of code quality is also embodied in a deep sense of accountability
in software engineers’ work. While engineers’ intrinsic drivers influence their accountability, the
shift to shared accountability during the review marks a departure from viewing code quality as a
personal and technical achievement to a collective endeavor.
   Code quality is not merely a set of standards or metrics but a shared value that is cultivated
through a sense of individual and collective accountability. Alami and Krancher drew similar
conclusions [3]. They found that Scrum’s social practices foster “social antecedents” (e.g., psycho-
logical safety and transparency) conducive to cultivating behavior and commitment to software
quality [3]. Amongst these “social antecedents”, a sense of collective accountability for a team’s
outcomes, including software quality, is more pronounced amongst developers.
   A useful way to think about code review as a social system is developed in social learning
theory [14]. Social learning theory (SLT) posits that individuals learn new behaviors and norms
through observing and imitating others [14]. In order for this social learning process to take place,
Fogarty and Dirsmith suggest that socialization practices such as mentoring facilitate “normative”
and “mimetic” isomorphism, especially for standards and behaviors established and/or sanctioned
by a profession [47]. New members imitate their mentor’s performance in their roles to fit within
the team and the organization and embody the profession’s ethos. They also actively adopt new
skills and mimic their mentor’s behaviors and values to advance their career in the organization
[47].
   SLT is relevant in understanding the role of personal qualities intrinsic to a software engineer,
such as pride in code quality, professional integrity, upholding personal standards, and maintaining
a reputation. The traditional mechanisms of social learning rely primarily on observation, imitation,
and social interaction. During mentoring, not only are technical skills passed on but also the ethos of
the profession, including values such as pride in code quality, professional integrity, and individual
accountability for code quality.

      Mentoring: To leverage the potential of social learning and promote accountability for
      code quality, organizations could implement structured mentorship programs. Experienced
      engineers with strong intrinsic accountability could be paired with new members. In this
      socialization process, mentors become role models, and reciprocal determinism may take
      place.

  Incorporating structured mentorship programs could promote and embed intrinsic drivers of
accountability within the organizational culture by emphasizing the professional values and social
norms that underpin code quality. These programs would involve pairing experienced engineers
with newcomers to foster a culture of accountability for quality. Mentors with strong intrinsic
accountability could model behaviors such as professional integrity, pride in work, and professional
reputation. Through ongoing mentoring and feedback, mentees may internalize these values, which
may align newcomer behaviors and lead to long-term behavioral shifts [65, 95].

                           ACM Trans. Softw. Eng. Methodol., Vol. 37, No. 4, Article 111. Publication date: August 2018.
111:36                                                                                          Alami, et al.



    Mentorship programs to promote accountability: Structured mentorship programs
    could include the following components:

    - Goal-oriented pairing: Pair new engineers with mentors based on shared professional
    goals, technical expertise, or accountability practices [95].

    - Regular feedback sessions: Create opportunities for mentors to provide constructive
    feedback and discuss the ethos of professional integrity, pride in code, and maintaining
    quality standards [79, 95].

    - Accountability exercises: Include activities such as collaborative code reviews, where
    mentors model behaviors like ownership of code quality and providing actionable feedback
    [79].

    - Career development integration: Tie mentorship outcomes to career progression to
    reinforce the mentee’s commitment to accountability as a professional standard [8].

    - Reciprocal learning opportunities: Encourage mentees to share their own perspectives
    and practices, fostering mutual growth and innovation [65].



   The transition to collective ownership and accountability for code quality during the review
process highlights the need for constructive delivery of the feedback to foster this communal
approach, especially given that the process is susceptible to perceptions of unfairness [57] and
negative impressions when the code is substandard [22, 23]. Feedback intervention theory (FIT)
suggests that feedback is effective when its focus is the task and not the individual, the intent is to
facilitate learning, and it is perceived as relevant by the recipient [71]. Our findings underscore
the importance of the recipient’s openness to feedback and the reviewer’s constructive delivery in
order for the improvement to materialize.
   The process where individual accountability for code quality shifts to collective is contingent on
this constructive focus. Some of our participants deliberately “read the room” or “politically” dress
their feedback with “kindness” and an intention to make the author of the code happy. An average
computer science graduate may not be equipped with the skills to handle this delicate process. The
lack of, and need for these skills was recently acknowledged in the ACM 2023 curriculum revision,
i.e., “[m]ore focus on team participation, communication, and collaboration” [90].


    Feedback: Organizations should develop and continuously improve guidelines for giving
    and receiving feedback that emphasize constructiveness, learning, and improvement.
    Educators should emphasize these skills in educational settings.


   Promoting Collective Code Ownership. The shift from individual to collective accountability
emphasizes the principles of collective ownership of code [19, 58]. When fostering a culture of
collective ownership of code and its quality, accountability for quality transcends individual levels
to become a shared group ethos. Social identity theory posits that when individuals see themselves
as part of a collective entity, they share the responsibility for the group’s success. [111]. The

ACM Trans. Softw. Eng. Methodol., Vol. 37, No. 4, Article 111. Publication date: August 2018.
Accountability in Code Review: The Role of Intrinsic Drivers and the Impact of LLMs                              111:37


identification with the group enhances motivation to contribute, as team members derive intrinsic
satisfaction from the group’s achievements [111].
   In SE, research shows that individual silos can create barriers to knowledge sharing and collabora-
tion, while collective ownership promotes a shared responsibility for the codebase [19], reinforcing
the importance of shared accountability in the pursuit of software quality [2]. Modern code
review practices also demonstrate that when multiple team members contribute to the review,
the process enhances code quality by broadening the accountability landscape and strengthening
the sense of shared responsibility for the codebase at the group level [58]. Thongtanunam and
Tantithamthavorn reported that diverse metrics of ownership, such as commit- and line-based
measures, accommodate varied contributions, fostering team cohesion and a sense of shared purpose
[113]. These findings align with the principles of social identity theory that collective ownership
enhances team identification and intrinsic motivation, promoting a group ethos centered on shared
success [111]. Supported by previous work and social identity theory, our findings indicate that
code review should remain a core SE quality practice.



    Promoting collective code ownership practices: Organizations should establish
    processes that encourage shared responsibility for the codebase. Our findings show that code
    review serves as a fundamental mechanism for promoting collective ownership principles
    in software engineering workflows. These findings suggest that maintaining and enhancing
    code review practices can reinforce team collaboration and intrinsic motivation, driving
    higher accountability for code quality and a stronger group ethos.



   Educational programs should align with the nature of SE practices in the industry, as previously
mentioned. Our findings demonstrate that SE is a socially loaded practice. Future software engineers
should be prepared to thrive in such environments. This aspect of SE was highlighted as far back
as 1988 in Curtis et al. [34] and re-emphasized repeatedly in many studies, e.g., [18, 43, 90, 103].



    Aligning SE education with its social dynamics: To support collective accountability for
    code quality in SE, educational programs should train software engineers in collaborative
    practices, constructive feedback techniques, and interpersonal communication. These skills
    are critical for fostering collective ownership in team-based environments.



   Integration Strategies for LLM. The transition to collective ownership and accountability for code
quality during the review process highlights the need for constructive delivery of the feedback
to foster this communal approach, especially given that the process is susceptible to perceptions
of unfairness [57] and negative impressions when the code is substandard [22, 23]. Feedback
intervention theory (FIT) suggests that feedback is effective when its focus is the task and not the
individual, the intent is to facilitate learning, and it is perceived as relevant by the recipient [71].
Our findings underscore the importance of the recipient’s openness to feedback and the reviewer’s
constructive delivery in order for the improvement to materialize.


                           ACM Trans. Softw. Eng. Methodol., Vol. 37, No. 4, Article 111. Publication date: August 2018.
111:38                                                                                          Alami, et al.



      Complementary role, not a replacement: To retain the social-centric aspects of accounta-
      bility for code quality and the social validation process built in, LLMs should be integrated
      as aids to human expertise rather than a replacement.
      LLM as first-line reviewer: One potential integration is to deploy an LLM as a preliminary
      reviewer to filter out straightforward issues before the actual peer review takes place. This
      implementation will also permit leveraging LLMs in an educational role.

   While LLMs may bring technical and educational augmentation to the process, as seen with
chatbots [121], they also impact the social learning process. It is a considerable shift from the
traditional peer-led review, with the potential to also disrupt well-established patterns of social
learning and accountability. Their inability to simply be human, reciprocate accountability, and
participate in social interactions hinders the social learning framework that underpins team
dynamics and collective accountability for code quality. The effectiveness of social learning, as
posited by SLT [13, 14], relies on the model role, in which skills, behavior, norms, and values are
adopted during a complex normative adjustment. The assumption that the integration of AI into
SE is a matter of plug and unplug is naive.

6.2      Research Implications
Our study extends accountability theory by demonstrating the temporal and dynamic nature of
individual and collective accountability in SE. The shift from individual to collective accountability,
mediated by intrinsic drivers such as professional integrity, pride in code quality, and personal
standards, demonstrates the significance of informal and nuanced aspects of accountability beyond
formal organizational structures. These findings open avenues for further research to explore
the tensions and synergies between institutionalized and informal accountability mechanisms.
For example, in our previous work, we reported performance reviews as a formal accountability
mechanism [2]. For instance, how do formal mechanisms like performance reviews interact with
informal accountability practices, such as peer validation or social learning, to shape engineers’
sense of accountability? Additionally, which type of accountability mechanism—institutionalized
or informal—exerts a more significant influence on fostering accountability for code quality, and
under what circumstances?
   The temporal aspect of accountability, we found in this study, enriches existing frameworks,
providing empirical evidence for how individual perceptions and intrinsic motivations can evolve
into shared accountability within a collaborative process like code review. By identifying intrinsic
drivers as antecedents to accountability, our findings address the noted gaps in accountability theory,
as highlighted by Hall et al. 2017 [61], and offer a pathway for designing accountability mechanisms
that leverage personal motivations in SE and similar socio-technical domains. However, we still do
not know how to operationalize these personal qualities into concrete practices to harness their
power. For instance, future research should explore this broad question: What are the mechanisms
through which intrinsic motivations can be integrated into formal and informal accountability
structures to enhance individual and collective accountability in SE and similar socio-technical
practices?
   The integration of AI tools like LLMs into SE processes challenges traditional accountability
mechanisms and social dynamics, necessitating a thoughtful design approach. Our findings emphasize
the need to preserve the social integrity of SE practices by ensuring that AI complements rather
than replaces human interactions. For instance, deploying AI-led reviews as first-line reviewers
can streamline technical assessments while leaving the social and collaborative dimensions of
accountability intact for peer review. Additionally, the educational role of LLMs offers potential for

ACM Trans. Softw. Eng. Methodol., Vol. 37, No. 4, Article 111. Publication date: August 2018.
Accountability in Code Review: The Role of Intrinsic Drivers and the Impact of LLMs                              111:39


skill enhancement, but their inability to reciprocate accountability or engage in social validation
underscores the importance of maintaining human oversight. These insights call for future research
to explore how AI can be integrated into SE in ways that sustain the collaborative and social fabric
foundational to the discipline. For example, future work can explore questions like: How can AI
tools be designed and integrated into software engineering to preserve the social integrity of its
practices?

7     RESEARCH TRUSTWORTHINESS, LIMITATIONS AND TRADE-OFFS
7.1    Trustworthiness
We implemented several techniques to address the requirements of research trustworthiness [85].
We reported Saturation (Phase I), Member checking (Phase I), and Feedback session (Phase II) in Sect.
4.
   Triangulation: We triangulated data sources, including interviews, focus groups, and participant
feedback sessions. This exercise allowed us to ensure that our findings are corroborated across
different data sources and contexts.
   Peer debriefing: Although the analysis was primarily conducted by the first author, the second
and third authors reviewed the proposed codes, and the results were continuously discussed and
scrutinized by the other two authors in several meetings throughout the analysis process. The
participation of two authors in the coding process helped minimize researcher biases [85]. This
approach is grounded in our epistemological stance, constructivism, which posits that knowledge
is socially constructed and that collective intellectual engagement can lead to more reliable
understandings of the data [50].
   Thick description: We endeavored to provide a detailed explanation of our research process and
the decisions we have made throughout (see Sect. 4). In addition, we assembled a comprehensive
replication package (see Sect. 4.4).

7.2    Limitations and Trade-offs
Homogeneous sample: Our sample is composed only of software engineers. In line with roles
theory [53, 67], we limited our sample to the software engineer role to mitigate the potential for
variations that may arise by the inclusion of multiple roles. Roles theory suggests that individuals’
accountability is closely linked to roles [53, 67]. This narrow focus strengthens the internal validity
of our study and allows for role-centric conclusions.
   Focus on intrinsic drivers: By focusing primarily on intrinsic drivers and their influence on
accountability, we may have inadvertently undermined other factors. For example, in our previous
work, we identified institutional factors, such as financial incentives or denial of promotions, that
also promote accountability in SE environments [2].
   Limited variation in the focus group design: Another tradeoff is the limited number of variations
in the focus group configurations, and the code snippets we used were not of industrial caliber.
The consistency across the four groups, shown in the collected data and findings, suggests that
additional configurations might not have significantly altered the results. In addition, we prioritized
in-depth discussions, which may have been diluted by overly complicated configurations and
complex code.
   Another tradeoff for this study design is with more realistic, complex, and context-aware code.
However, we felt this would greatly limit the accessibility of the focus groups. A future study,
examining the contextual intricacies of a proprietary codebase, would shed insight on the role of
context in this setting.

                           ACM Trans. Softw. Eng. Methodol., Vol. 37, No. 4, Article 111. Publication date: August 2018.
111:40                                                                                          Alami, et al.


   We conducted focus groups synchronously and online. Often code reviews, in particular on
GitHub and similar sites, are asynchronous and text-based. Open source projects have different
dynamics than the ones we discuss here. Hence, our findings our findings may not fully transferable
to asynchronous or open-source code reviews. Furthermore, the online setting may have influenced
participants’ behavior differently than an in-person setup.
   The implementation of a pre-focus group questionnaire to mitigate the risk of social desirability
bias [54] and self-censorship [123] during the focus group discussions carries the risk of priming
participants. To mitigate this risk, we avoided the explicit use of the word “accountability” in the
questions. In addition, during the discussions, we asked participants to provide concrete examples
to anchor their responses in their personal experiences, thereby avoiding generic or socially desired
answers.


8 CONCLUSION
In this study, motivated by our prior work on the broader concept of accountability in SE [2], we
sought to understand the interplay between intrinsic drivers and software engineers’ sense of
accountability for code quality (RQ1). Also motivated by the evolving nature of AI in SE [45], we
investigated the impact of the introduction of LLM-assisted review in the context of code review.
   We provide insights into how intrinsic drivers, namely professional integrity, pride, personal
standards, and reputation, shape engineers’ individual accountability. The study also uncovered
a complex accountability process that transitions from individual to collective throughout the
process. Finally, the integration of an LLM into this socially loaded process unveiled a pronounced
reluctance among software engineers to compromise the social integrity inherent in traditional code
review. We contribute to the ongoing efforts to make SE a socially aware practice. The study also
created awareness about the integration of AI in SE. The LLM disruption, we observed, highlights
emphasizing the preservation of essential human and social aspects such as accountability, social
validation, and intrinsic motivation.
   Our findings highlight the importance of aligning AI integration with the social dynamics of SE
processes to maintain their collaborative essence. Our work opens avenues for future research to
investigate mitigating the impact of AI integration in the social dynamics of SE. Future work should
explore design frameworks and practical strategies that bridge the gap between the social dynamics
inherent in SE and AI integration. Research efforts should ensure that AI augments SE rather than
disrupts its critical human-centric practices like accountability and social validation. Such efforts
can guide the development of AI that complements the collaborative fabric of SE, fostering both
technological efficiency and social cohesion.
   For instance, some future research questions to pursue include: How can AI tool integration be
designed to preserve the social integrity of software engineering environments and practices? What
mechanisms can effectively integrate LLM-generated feedback into socio-technical SE practices
without diminishing the human element? Addressing such questions can guide the development of
AI that complements the collaborative and social fabric of SE.


ACKNOWLEDGMENTS
We would like to thank our interviewees and the focus groups participants for their time and effort
in making this study possible. This work was funded by the first author’s tenure-track position
funding available for research and provided by the Computer Science department at Aalborg
University.


ACM Trans. Softw. Eng. Methodol., Vol. 37, No. 4, Article 111. Publication date: August 2018.
Accountability in Code Review: The Role of Intrinsic Drivers and the Impact of LLMs                                111:41


REFERENCES
  [1] Adam Alami, Marisa Leavitt Cohn, and Andrzej Wąsowski. 2019. Why does code review work for open source software
      communities?. In 2019 IEEE/ACM 41st International Conference on Software Engineering (ICSE). IEEE, 1073–1083.
  [2] Adam Alami and Neil Ernst. 2024. Understanding the building blocks of accountability in software engineering.
      In Proceedings of the 2024 IEEE/ACM 17th International Conference on Cooperative and Human Aspects of Software
      Engineering. 153–163.
  [3] Adam Alami and Oliver Krancher. 2022. How Scrum adds value to achieving software quality? Empirical Software
      Engineering 27, 7 (2022), 165.
  [4] Adam Alami and Andrzej Wąsowski. 2019. Affiliated participation in open source communities. In 2019 ACM/IEEE
      International Symposium on Empirical Software Engineering and Measurement (ESEM). IEEE, 1–11.
  [5] Adam Alami, Mansooreh Zahedi, and Neil Ernst. 2024. Are You a Real Software Engineer? Best Practices in Online
      Recruitment for Software Engineering Studies. The 1st International Workshop on Methodological Issues with Empirical
      Studies in Software Engineering (WSESE 2024) (2024).
  [6] Adam Alami, Mansooreh Zahedi, and Oliver Krancher. 2024. The role of psychological safety in promoting software
      quality in agile teams. Empirical Software Engineering 29, 5 (2024), 119.
  [7] Khaldoun M Aldiabat and Carole-Lynne Le Navenec. 2018. Data saturation: The mysterious step in grounded theory
      methodology. The qualitative report 23, 1 (2018), 245–261.
  [8] Tammy D Allen, Lillian T Eby, Mark L Poteet, Elizabeth Lentz, and Lizzette Lima. 2004. Career benefits associated
      with mentoring for protégés: A meta-analysis. Journal of applied psychology 89, 1 (2004), 127.
  [9] Solomon E Asch. 2016. Effects of group pressure upon the modification and distortion of judgments. In Organizational
      influence processes. Routledge, 295–303.
 [10] Alberto Bacchelli and Christian Bird. 2013. Expectations, outcomes, and challenges of modern code review. In 2013
      35th International Conference on Software Engineering (ICSE). IEEE, 712–721.
 [11] Deepika Badampudi, Michael Unterkalmsteiner, and Ricardo Britto. 2023. Modern Code Reviews-Survey of Literature
      and Practice. ACM Transactions on Software Engineering and Methodology 32, 4 (May 2023), 1–61. https://doi.org/10.
      1145/3585004
 [12] Sebastian Baltes and Paul Ralph. 2022. Sampling in software engineering research: A critical review and guidelines.
      Empirical Software Engineering 27, 4 (2022), 94.
 [13] Albert Bandura et al. 1986. Social foundations of thought and action. Englewood Cliffs, NJ 1986, 23-28 (1986), 2.
 [14] Albert Bandura and Richard H Walters. 1977. Social learning theory. Vol. 1. Englewood cliffs Prentice Hall.
 [15] Tobias Baum, Kurt Schneider, and Alberto Bacchelli. 2017. On the optimal order of reading source code changes for
      review. In 2017 IEEE international conference on software maintenance and evolution (ICSME). IEEE, 329–340.
 [16] Tobias Baum, Kurt Schneider, and Alberto Bacchelli. 2019. Associating working memory capacity and code change
      ordering with code review performance. Empirical Software Engineering 24 (2019), 1762–1798.
 [17] Gordon Baxter and Ian Sommerville. 2011. Socio-technical systems: From design methods to systems engineering.
      Interacting with computers 23, 1 (2011), 4–17.
 [18] Andrew Begel and Nachiappan Nagappan. 2008. Pair programming: what’s in it for me?. In Proceedings of the Second
      ACM-IEEE international symposium on Empirical software engineering and measurement. 120–128.
 [19] Christian Bird, Nachiappan Nagappan, Brendan Murphy, Harald Gall, and Premkumar Devanbu. 2011. Don’t touch
      my code! Examining the effects of ownership on software quality. In Proceedings of the 19th ACM SIGSOFT symposium
      and the 13th European conference on Foundations of software engineering. 4–14.
 [20] Linda Birt, Suzanne Scott, Debbie Cavers, Christine Campbell, and Fiona Walter. 2016. Member checking: a tool to
      enhance trustworthiness or merely a nod to validation? Qualitative health research 26, 13 (2016), 1802–1811.
 [21] Mark Bolino, David Long, and William Turnley. 2016. Impression management in organizations: Critical questions,
      answers, and areas for future research. Annual Review of Organizational Psychology and Organizational Behavior 3, 1
      (2016), 377–406.
 [22] Amiangshu Bosu and Jeffrey C Carver. 2013. Impact of peer code review on peer impression formation: A survey. In
      2013 ACM/IEEE International Symposium on Empirical Software Engineering and Measurement. IEEE, 133–142.
 [23] Amiangshu Bosu, Jeffrey C Carver, Christian Bird, Jonathan Orbeck, and Christopher Chockley. 2016. Process aspects
      and social dynamics of contemporary code review: Insights from open source development and industrial practice at
      Microsoft. IEEE Transactions on Software Engineering 43, 1 (2016), 56–75.
 [24] Amiangshu Bosu, Michaela Greiler, and Christian Bird. 2015. Characteristics of useful code reviews: An empirical
      study at microsoft. In 2015 IEEE/ACM 12th Working Conference on Mining Software Repositories. IEEE, 146–156.
 [25] Glenn A Bowen. 2008. Naturalistic inquiry and the saturation concept: a research note. Qualitative research 8, 1
      (2008), 137–152.
 [26] David Byrne. 2002. Complexity theory and the social sciences: An introduction. Routledge.



                            ACM Trans. Softw. Eng. Methodol., Vol. 37, No. 4, Article 111. Publication date: August 2018.
111:42                                                                                                           Alami, et al.


 [27] Judy Cameron and W David Pierce. 1994. Reinforcement, reward, and intrinsic motivation: A meta-analysis. Review
      of Educational research 64, 3 (1994), 363–423.
 [28] Robyn P Cant and Simon J Cooper. 2010. Simulation-based learning in nurse education: systematic review. Journal of
      advanced nursing 66, 1 (2010), 3–15.
 [29] John M Carroll. 2003. Making use: scenario-based design of human-computer interactions. MIT press.
 [30] Jesse J Chandler and Gabriele Paolacci. 2017. Lie for a dime: When most prescreening responses are honest but most
      study participants are impostors. Social Psychological and Personality Science 8, 5 (2017), 500–508.
 [31] Robert B Cialdini and Noah J Goldstein. 2004. Social influence: Compliance and conformity. Annu. Rev. Psychol. 55, 1
      (2004), 591–621.
 [32] John W Creswell and Vicki L Plano Clark. 2017. Designing and conducting mixed methods research. Sage publications.
 [33] Atacílio Cunha, Tayana Conte, and Bruno Gadelha. 2021. Code Review is just reviewing code? A qualitative study
      with practitioners in industry. In Proceedings of the XXXV Brazilian Symposium on Software Engineering. 269–274.
 [34] Bill Curtis, Herb Krasner, and Neil Iscoe. 1988. A field study of the software design process for large systems. Commun.
      ACM 31, 11 (1988), 1268–1287.
 [35] Barthélémy Dagenais and Martin P Robillard. 2011. Recommending adaptive changes for framework evolution. ACM
      Transactions on Software Engineering and Methodology (TOSEM) 20, 4 (2011), 1–35.
 [36] Nicole Davila and Ingrid Nunes. 2021. A systematic literature review and taxonomy of modern code review. Journal
      of Systems and Software 177 (2021), 110951.
 [37] David De Cremer and Müriel Barker. 2003. Accountability and cooperation in social dilemmas: The influence of
      others’ reputational concerns. Current Psychology 22, 2 (2003), 155–163.
 [38] David De Cremer and Constantine Sedikides. 2008. Reputational implications of procedural fairness for personal and
      relational self-esteem. Basic and Applied Social Psychology 30, 1 (2008), 66–75.
 [39] David De Cremer, Mark Snyder, and Siegfried Dewitte. 2001. ‘The less I trust, the less I contribute (or not)?’ The
      effects of trust, accountability and self-monitoring in social dilemmas. European Journal of Social Psychology 31, 1
      (2001), 93–107.
 [40] David De Cremer and Eric Van Dijk. 2009. Paying for sanctions in social dilemmas: The effects of endowment
      asymmetry and accountability. Organizational Behavior and Human Decision Processes 109, 1 (2009), 45–55.
 [41] Erik W de Kwaadsteniet, Eric van Dijk, Arjaan Wit, David De Cremer, and Mark de Rooij. 2007. Justifying decisions
      in social dilemmas: Justification pressures and tacit coordination under environmental uncertainty. Personality and
      Social Psychology Bulletin 33, 12 (2007), 1648–1660.
 [42] Edward L Deci and Richard M Ryan. 2000. The" what" and" why" of goal pursuits: Human needs and the self-
      determination of behavior. Psychological inquiry 11, 4 (2000), 227–268.
 [43] Tom DeMarco and Tim Lister. 2013. Peopleware: productive projects and teams. Addison-Wesley.
 [44] Carolyn D. Egelman, Emerson Murphy-Hill, Elizabeth Kammer, Margaret Morrow Hodges, Collin Green, Ciera Jaspan,
      and James Lin. 2020. Predicting developers’ negative feelings about code review. In Proceedings of the ACM/IEEE 42nd
      International Conference on Software Engineering. ACM. https://doi.org/10.1145/3377811.3380414
 [45] Angela Fan, Beliz Gokkaya, Mark Harman, Mitya Lyubarskiy, Shubho Sengupta, Shin Yoo, and Jie M Zhang. 2023. Large
      language models for software engineering: Survey and open problems. In 2023 IEEE/ACM International Conference on
      Software Engineering: Future of Software Engineering (ICSE-FoSE). IEEE, 31–53.
 [46] Ayelet Fishbach and Kaitlin Woolley. 2022. The structure of intrinsic motivation. Annual Review of Organizational
      Psychology and Organizational Behavior 9 (2022), 339–363.
 [47] Timothy J Fogarty and Mark W Dirsmith. 2001. Organizational socialization as instrument and symbol: An extended
      institutional theory perspective. Human Resource Development Quarterly 12, 3 (2001), 247–266.
 [48] Robert Folger and Russell Cropanzano. 2001. Fairness theory: Justice as accountability. Advances in organizational
      justice 1, 1-55 (2001), 12.
 [49] Nicole Forsgren and Mik Kersten. 2018. DevOps metrics. Commun. ACM 61, 4 (March 2018), 44–48. https:
      //doi.org/10.1145/3159169
 [50] Catherine Twomey Fosnot. 2013. Constructivism: Theory, perspectives, and practice. Teachers College Press.
 [51] Dwight D Frink, Angela T Hall, Alexa A Perryman, Annette L Ranft, Wayne A Hochwarter, Gerald R Ferris, and M
      Todd Royle. 2008. Meso-level theory of accountability in organizations. In Research in personnel and human resources
      management. Emerald Group Publishing Limited, 177–245.
 [52] Dwight D Frink and Richard J Klimoski. 1998. Toward a theory of accountability in organizations and human resource
      management. Research in personnel and human resources management 16 (1998).
 [53] Dwight D Frink and Richard J Klimoski. 2004. Advancing accountability theory and practice: Introduction to the
      human resource management review special edition. Human resource management review 14, 1 (2004), 1–17.
 [54] Adrian Furnham. 1986. Response bias, social desirability and dissimulation. Personality and individual differences 7, 3
      (1986), 385–400.


ACM Trans. Softw. Eng. Methodol., Vol. 37, No. 4, Article 111. Publication date: August 2018.
Accountability in Code Review: The Role of Intrinsic Drivers and the Impact of LLMs                                     111:43


 [55] David M Gaba. 2004. The future vision of simulation in health care. BMJ quality & safety 13, suppl 1 (2004), i2–i10.
 [56] Michele J Gelfand, Beng-Chong Lim, and Jana L Raver. 2004. Culture and accountability in organizations: Variations
      in forms of social control across cultures. Human Resource management review 14, 1 (2004), 135–160.
 [57] Daniel M German, Gregorio Robles, Germán Poo-Caamaño, Xin Yang, Hajimu Iida, and Katsuro Inoue. 2018. ‘Was my
      contribution fairly reviewed?’ a framework to study the perception of fairness in modern code reviews. In Proceedings
      of the 40th International Conference on Software Engineering. 523–534.
 [58] Michaela Greiler, Kim Herzig, and Jacek Czerwonka. 2015. Code ownership and software quality: A replication study.
      In 2015 IEEE/ACM 12th Working Conference on Mining Software Repositories. IEEE, 2–12.
 [59] Greg Guest, Arwen Bunce, and Laura Johnson. 2006. How many interviews are enough? An experiment with data
      saturation and variability. Field methods 18, 1 (2006), 59–82.
 [60] Angela T Hall, Fred R Blass, Gerald R Ferris, and Randy Massengale. 2004. Leader reputation and accountability in
      organizations: Implications for dysfunctional leader behavior. The Leadership Quarterly 15, 4 (2004), 515–536.
 [61] Angela T Hall, Dwight D Frink, and M Ronald Buckley. 2017. An accountability account: A review and synthesis of
      the theoretical and empirical research on felt accountability. Journal of Organizational Behavior 38, 2 (2017), 204–224.
 [62] Angela T Hall, Dwight D Frink, Gerald R Ferris, Wayne A Hochwarter, Charles J Kacmar, and Michael G Bowen. 2003.
      Accountability in human resources management. New directions in human resource management 29 (2003), 63.
 [63] Janet Heaton. 2008. Secondary analysis of qualitative data: An overview. Historical Social Research/Historische
      Sozialforschung (2008), 33–45.
 [64] Pamela R Jeffries. 2005. A framework for designing, implementing, and evaluating: Simulations used as teaching
      strategies in nursing. Nursing education perspectives 26, 2 (2005), 96–103.
 [65] Juanita Johnson-Bailey and Ronald M Cervero. 2004. Mentoring in black and white: the intricacies of cross-cultural
      mentoring. Mentoring & tutoring: Partnership in learning 12, 1 (2004), 7–21.
 [66] Severin Kacianka and Alexander Pretschner. 2021. Designing accountable systems. In Proceedings of the 2021 ACM
      conference on fairness, accountability, and transparency. 424–437.
 [67] Daniel Katz and Robert L Kahn. 1978. The social psychology of organizations. Vol. 2. wiley New York.
 [68] Maryon F King and Gordon C Bruner. 2000. Social desirability bias: A neglected aspect of validity testing. Psychology
      & Marketing 17, 2 (2000), 79–103.
 [69] David Kipnis. 1972. Does power corrupt? Journal of personality and social psychology 24, 1 (1972), 33.
 [70] Norihito Kitagawa, Hideaki Hata, Akinori Ihara, Kiminao Kogiso, and Kenichi Matsumoto. 2016. Code review
      participation: game theoretical modeling of reviewers in gerrit datasets. In Proceedings of the 9th International
      Workshop on Cooperative and Human Aspects of Software Engineering. 64–67.
 [71] Avraham N Kluger and Angelo DeNisi. 1996. The effects of feedback interventions on performance: a historical
      review, a meta-analysis, and a preliminary feedback intervention theory. Psychological bulletin 119, 2 (1996), 254.
 [72] Nancy L Kocovski and Norman S Endler. 2000. Social anxiety, self-regulation, and fear of negative evaluation.
      European Journal of Personality 14, 4 (2000), 347–358.
 [73] Jyrki Kontio, Johanna Bragge, and Laura Lehtola. 2008. The Focus Group Method as an Empirical Tool in Software
      Engineering. Springer London, 93–116. https://doi.org/10.1007/978-1-84800-044-5_4
 [74] Herb Krasner. 2018. Research Report. https://www.it-cisq.org/the-cost-of-poor-quality-software-in-the-us-a-2018-
      report/
 [75] Diane Larsen-Freeman. 2013. Complexity theory. In The Routledge handbook of second language acquisition. Routledge,
      73–87.
 [76] Mark R Leary. 2019. Self-presentation: Impression management and interpersonal behavior. Routledge.
 [77] Jennifer S Lerner and Philip E Tetlock. 1999. Accounting for the effects of accountability. Psychological bulletin 125, 2
      (1999), 255.
 [78] Zhiyu Li, Shuai Lu, Daya Guo, Nan Duan, Shailesh Jannu, Grant Jenks, Deep Majumder, Jared Green, Alexey
      Svyatkovskiy, Shengyu Fu, et al. 2022. Automating code review activities by large-scale pre-training. In Proceedings
      of the 30th ACM Joint European Software Engineering Conference and Symposium on the Foundations of Software
      Engineering. 1035–1047.
 [79] Manuel London and James W Smither. 2002. Feedback orientation, feedback culture, and the longitudinal performance
      management process. Human resource management review 12, 1 (2002), 81–100.
 [80] Junyi Lu, Lei Yu, Xiaojia Li, Li Yang, and Chun Zuo. 2023. LLaMA-Reviewer: Advancing code review automation
      with large language models through parameter-efficient fine-tuning. In 2023 IEEE 34th International Symposium on
      Software Reliability Engineering (ISSRE). IEEE, 647–658.
 [81] Thomas W Malone, Daniela Rus, and Robert Laubacher. 2020. Artificial intelligence and the future of work. A report
      prepared by MIT Task Force on the work of the future, Research Brief 17 (2020), 1–39.
 [82] Shane McIntosh, Yasutaka Kamei, Bram Adams, and Ahmed E Hassan. 2016. An empirical study of the impact of
      modern code review practices on software quality. Empirical Software Engineering 21 (2016), 2146–2189.


                             ACM Trans. Softw. Eng. Methodol., Vol. 37, No. 4, Article 111. Publication date: August 2018.
111:44                                                                                                            Alami, et al.


 [83] Andrew Meneely, Alberto C Rodriguez Tejeda, Brian Spates, Shannon Trudeau, Danielle Neuberger, Katherine
      Whitlock, Christopher Ketant, and Kayla Davis. 2014. An empirical investigation of socio-technical code review
      metrics and security vulnerabilities. In Proceedings of the 6th International Workshop on Social Software Engineering.
      37–44.
 [84] Neal P Mero, Rebecca M Guidice, and Amy L Brownlee. 2007. Accountability in a performance appraisal context:
      The effect of audience and form of accounting on rater response and behavior. Journal of Management 33, 2 (2007),
      223–252.
 [85] Matthew B Miles, A Michael Huberman, Johnny Saldana, et al. 2014. Qualitative data analysis: A methods sourcebook.
      Thousand Oaks, CA: Sage.
 [86] Stanley Milgram. 1963. Behavioral study of obedience. The Journal of abnormal and social psychology 67, 4 (1963),
      371.
 [87] Janice M Morse. 2004. Theoretical saturation. Encyclopedia of social science research methods 3 (2004), 1122–3.
 [88] Tobias O. Nyumba, Kerrie Wilson, Christina J Derrick, and Nibedita Mukherjee. 2018. The use of focus group
      discussion methodology: Insights from two decades of application in conservation. Methods in Ecology and evolution
      9, 1 (2018), 20–32.
 [89] William Odom, John Zimmerman, Scott Davidoff, Jodi Forlizzi, Anind K Dey, and Min Kyung Lee. 2012. A fieldwork
      of the future with user enactments. In Proceedings of the Designing Interactive Systems Conference. 338–347.
 [90] The Joint Task Force on Computing Curricula. 2024. . Technical Report Version 2024-01-18. ACM. https://csed.acm.
      org/cs2023-report-with-feedback/
 [91] Prahar Pandya and Saurabh Tiwari. 2022. Corms: a github and gerrit based hybrid code reviewer recommendation
      approach for modern code review. In Proceedings of the 30th ACM joint European software engineering conference and
      symposium on the foundations of software engineering. 546–557.
 [92] Michael Quinn Patton. 2014. Qualitative research & evaluation methods: Integrating theory and practice. Sage
      publications.
 [93] Amaryll Perlesz and Jo Lindsay. 2003. Methodological triangulation in researching families: Making sense of dissonant
      data. International Journal of Social Research Methodology 6, 1 (2003), 25–40.
 [94] Philip M Podsakoff, Scott B MacKenzie, Jeong-Yeon Lee, and Nathan P Podsakoff. 2003. Common method biases in
      behavioral research: a critical review of the literature and recommended remedies. Journal of applied psychology 88, 5
      (2003), 879.
 [95] Belle Rose Ragins and Kathy E Kram. 2007. The handbook of mentoring at work: Theory, research, and practice. Sage
      Publications.
 [96] Johnmarshall Reeve. 1998. Autonomy support as an interpersonal motivating style: Is it teachable? Contemporary
      educational psychology 23, 3 (1998), 312–330.
 [97] Peter C Rigby and Christian Bird. 2013. Convergent contemporary software peer review practices. In Proceedings of
      the 2013 9th joint meeting on foundations of software engineering. 202–212.
 [98] Barbara Romzek, Kelly LeRoux, Jocelyn Johnston, Robin J Kempf, and Jaclyn Schede Piatak. 2014. Informal accounta-
      bility in multisector service delivery collaborations. Journal of Public Administration Research and Theory 24, 4 (2014),
      813–842.
 [99] Barbara S Romzek, Kelly LeRoux, and Jeannette M Blackmar. 2012. A preliminary theory of informal accountability
      among network organizational actors. Public administration review 72, 3 (2012), 442–453.
[100] Nicole Ruggiano and Tam E Perry. 2019. Conducting secondary analysis of qualitative data: Should we, can we, and
      how? Qualitative Social Work 18, 1 (2019), 81–97.
[101] Richard M Ryan and Jessica A Solky. 1996. What is supportive about social support? On the psychological needs for
      autonomy and relatedness. In Handbook of social support and the family. Springer, 249–267.
[102] Caitlin Sadowski, Emma Söderberg, Luke Church, Michal Sipko, and Alberto Bacchelli. 2018. Modern code review: a
      case study at google. In Proceedings of the 40th international conference on software engineering: Software engineering
      in practice. 181–190.
[103] Eduardo Salas, Nancy J Cooke, and Michael A Rosen. 2008. On teams, teamwork, and team performance: Discoveries
      and developments. Human factors 50, 3 (2008), 540–547.
[104] Johnny Saldaña. 2021. The coding manual for qualitative researchers. sage.
[105] Barry R Schlenker, Thomas W Britt, John Pennington, Rodolfo Murphy, and Kevin Doherty. 1994. The triangle model
      of responsibility. Psychological review 101, 4 (1994), 632.
[106] Shu-Ting Shi, Ming Li, David Lo, Ferdian Thung, and Xuan Huo. 2019. Automatic code review by learning the revision
      of source code. In Proceedings of the AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence, Vol. 33. 4910–4917.
[107] Sujin Shin, Jin-Hwa Park, and Jung-Hee Kim. 2015. Effectiveness of patient simulation in nursing education: meta-
      analysis. Nurse education today 35, 1 (2015), 176–182.



ACM Trans. Softw. Eng. Methodol., Vol. 37, No. 4, Article 111. Publication date: August 2018.
Accountability in Code Review: The Role of Intrinsic Drivers and the Impact of LLMs                                      111:45


[108] Arthur A Stone, Christine A Bachrach, Jared B Jobe, Howard S Kurtzman, and Virginia S Cain. 1999. The science of
      self-report: Implications for research and practice. Psychology Press.
[109] Margaret-Anne Storey, Neil A. Ernst, Courtney Williams, and Eirini Kalliamvakou. 2020. The who, what, how
      of software engineering research: a socio-technical framework. Empirical Software Engineering 25, 5 (Aug. 2020),
      4097–4129. https://doi.org/10.1007/s10664-020-09858-z
[110] Alexey Svyatkovskiy, Shao Kun Deng, Shengyu Fu, and Neel Sundaresan. 2020. Intellicode compose: Code generation
      using transformer. In Proceedings of the 28th ACM joint meeting on European software engineering conference and
      symposium on the foundations of software engineering. 1433–1443.
[111] Henri Tajfel. 1979. An integrative theory of intergroup conflict. The social psychology of intergroup relations/Brooks/Cole
      (1979).
[112] Philip E Tetlock. 1992. The impact of accountability on judgment and choice: Toward a social contingency model. In
      Advances in experimental social psychology. Vol. 25. Elsevier, 331–376.
[113] Patanamon Thongtanunam and Chakkrit Tantithamthavorn. 2024. Code Ownership: The Principles, Differences,
      and Their Associations with Software Quality. In 2024 IEEE 35th International Symposium on Software Reliability
      Engineering (ISSRE). IEEE, 379–390.
[114] Roger Tourangeau and Ting Yan. 2007. Sensitive questions in surveys. Psychological bulletin 133, 5 (2007), 859.
[115] Tom R Tyler. 1999. Why people cooperate with organizations: An identity-based perspective. Research in organizational
      behavior 21 (1999), 201–246.
[116] Guido Van Rossum, Fred L Drake, et al. 1995. Python reference manual. Vol. 111. Centrum voor Wiskunde en
      Informatica Amsterdam.
[117] Bogdan Vasilescu, Yue Yu, Huaimin Wang, Premkumar Devanbu, and Vladimir Filkov. 2015. Quality and productivity
      outcomes relating to continuous integration in GitHub. In Proceedings of the 2015 10th joint meeting on foundations of
      software engineering. 805–816.
[118] A Vaswani and et al. 2017. Attention is all you need. Advances in Neural Information Processing Systems (2017).
[119] David Watson and Ronald Friend. 1969. Measurement of social-evaluative anxiety. Journal of consulting and clinical
      psychology 33, 4 (1969), 448.
[120] Daniel M Wegner. 1987. Transactive memory: A contemporary analysis of the group mind. In Theories of group
      behavior. Springer, 185–208.
[121] Mairieli Wessel, Ahmad Abdellatif, Igor Wiese, Tayana Conte, Emad Shihab, Marco A. Gerosa, and Igor Steinmacher.
      2022. Bots for pull requests: the good, the bad, and the promising. In Proceedings of the 44th International Conference
      on Software Engineering. ACM. https://doi.org/10.1145/3510003.3512765
[122] Pavlina Wurzel Gonçalves, GÃĳl Çalikli, and Alberto Bacchelli. 2022. Interpersonal Conflicts During Code Review:
      Developers’ Experience and Practices. Proceedings of the ACM on Human-Computer Interaction 6 (March 2022), 1–33.
      https://doi.org/10.1145/3512945
[123] Philip T Yanos and Kim Hopper. 2008. On ‘false, collusive objectification’: Becoming attuned to self-censorship,
      performance and interviewer biases in qualitative interviewing. International journal of social research methodology
      11, 3 (2008), 229–237.
[124] Kelly L Zellars, Wayne A Hochwarter, Stephen E Lanivich, Pamela L Perrewé, and Gerald R Ferris. 2011. Accountability
      for others, perceived resources, and well being: Convergent restricted non-linear results in two samples. Journal of
      Occupational and Organizational Psychology 84, 1 (2011), 95–115.
[125] Lubna Mahmoud Abu Zohair. 2018. The Future of Software Engineering by 2050s: Will AI Replace Software Engineers?
      International Journal of Information Technology 2, 3 (2018), 1–13.

Received 20 February 2024; revised 12 March 2025; accepted 5 June 2025




                             ACM Trans. Softw. Eng. Methodol., Vol. 37, No. 4, Article 111. Publication date: August 2018.
