                                         Knowledge-Guided Prompt Learning for Request Quality
                                         Assurance in Public Code Review
                                         LIN LI, School of Computer Science and Artificial Intelligence, Wuhan University of Technology, China
                                         XINCHUN YU∗ , School of Computer Science and Artificial Intelligence, Wuhan University of Technology,
                                         China
                                         XINYU CHEN, China Mobile Design Institute Co., Ltd., China
                                         PENG LIANG, School of Computer Science, Wuhan University, China
arXiv:2410.21673v4 [cs.SE] 10 Nov 2025




                                         Public Code Review (PCR) is developed in the Software Question Answering (SQA) community, assisting
                                         developers in exploring high-quality and efficient review services. Current methods on PCR mainly focus on
                                         the reviewer’s perspective, including finding a capable reviewer, predicting comment quality, and recommend-
                                         ing/generating review comments. However, it is not well studied that how to satisfy the review necessity
                                         requests posted by developers which can increase their visibility, which in turn acts as a prerequisite for
                                         better review responses. To this end, we propose Knowledge-guided Prompt learning for Public Code Review
                                         (KP-PCR) to achieve developer-based code review request quality assurance (i.e., predicting request necessity
                                         and recommending tags subtask). Specifically, we reformulate the two subtasks via 1) text prompt tuning
                                         which converts both of them into a Masked Language Model (MLM) by constructing prompt templates using
                                         hard prompt; and 2) knowledge and code prefix tuning which introduces knowledge guidance from fine-tuned
                                         large language models by soft prompt, and uses program dependence graph to characterize code snippets.
                                         Finally, both of the request necessity prediction and tag recommendation subtasks output predicted results
                                         through an answer engineering module. In addition, we further analysis the time complexity of our KP-PCR
                                         that has lightweight prefix based the operation of introducing knowledge guidance. Experimental results on
                                         the PCR dataset for the period 2011-2023 demonstrate that our KP-PCR outperforms baselines by 2.3%-8.4% in
                                         the request necessity prediction and by 1.4%-6.9% in the tag recommendation. The code implementation is
                                         released at https://github.com/WUT-IDEA/KP-PCR.

                                         CCS Concepts: • Software and its engineering → Software post-development issues.

                                         Additional Key Words and Phrases: public code review, review necessity prediction, tag recommendation,
                                         prompt learning, knowledge enhancement

                                         ACM Reference Format:
                                         Lin Li, Xinchun Yu, Xinyu Chen, and Peng Liang. 2025. Knowledge-Guided Prompt Learning for Request
                                         Quality Assurance in Public Code Review. ACM Trans. Softw. Eng. Methodol. 0, 0, Article 0 (August 2025),
                                         27 pages. https://doi.org/XXXXXXX.XXXXXXX

                                         ∗ Corresponding author



                                         Authors’ Contact Information: Lin Li, School of Computer Science and Artificial Intelligence, Wuhan University of Technol-
                                         ogy, Wuhan, China, cathylilin@whut.edu.cn; Xinchun Yu, School of Computer Science and Artificial Intelligence, Wuhan
                                         University of Technology, Wuhan, China, evenyxc@whut.edu.cn; Xinyu Chen, China Mobile Design Institute Co., Ltd.,
                                         Wuhan, China, chenxinyu@cmdi.chinamobile.com; Peng Liang, School of Computer Science, Wuhan University, Wuhan,
                                         China, liangp@whu.edu.cn.


                                         Permission to make digital or hard copies of all or part of this work for personal or classroom use is granted without fee
                                         provided that copies are not made or distributed for profit or commercial advantage and that copies bear this notice and the
                                         full citation on the first page. Copyrights for components of this work owned by others than the author(s) must be honored.
                                         Abstracting with credit is permitted. To copy otherwise, or republish, to post on servers or to redistribute to lists, requires
                                         prior specific permission and/or a fee. Request permissions from permissions@acm.org.
                                         © 2025 Copyright held by the owner/author(s). Publication rights licensed to ACM.
                                         ACM 1557-7392/2025/8-ART0
                                         https://doi.org/XXXXXXX.XXXXXXX


                                                                          ACM Trans. Softw. Eng. Methodol., Vol. 0, No. 0, Article 0. Publication date: August 2025.
0:2


1     Introduction
Code review can be conducted either within a team or by public developers. As an application
form of traditional code review [9, 24, 33, 34, 38], code review within a team, serves as an essential
quality assurance mechanism in mature and successful commercial and Open Source Software
(OSS) projects [7]. However, due to its labor-intensive nature, code review within team gradually
increases the time and resources spent on review activities as projects become more complex
and extensive [35, 36]. Therefore, beside the popularity of team code review [20], modern code
review has evolved from a formal and rigorously regulated process [12, 37] to a less stringent
practice [2, 3, 35].
   Public Code Review (PCR) is a type of modern code review task developed in the Software
Question Answering (SQA) community, which helps developers explore efficient and high-quality
review services. Unlike traditional code review, PCR is typically directed towards a broader developer
community, where users can submit review requests without being tied to a specific project context.
This openness enables PCR to gather diverse perspectives and expertise on code, but the lack of
project structure often leads to submissions that lack context or clear background information,
introducing challenges in management and quality control of code review. Existing research on code
review has already recognized the importance of quality assurance mechanisms [4, 5, 37]. Therefore,
this issue should also be given attention in public code review tasks. In open environments lacking
project structure, appropriate quality control not only helps guide users to submit clearer and more
standardized review requests, but also provides safeguards for identifying potential issues and
facilitating efficient collaboration.
   In the PCR process implemented by the SQA community, request quality assurance for code
review service mainly depends on developers. Developers are required and encouraged to submit
PCR requests in the community. A review request1 consists of several parts, as shown in Fig. 1,
including title, request description (text and code snippets), quality, and tags. The necessity of these
code review requests is evaluated by public via request necessity prediction [10] subtask after the
requests are posted. Meanwhile, developers always need to choose technical terms as review tags.
These tags can be used to match requests with suitable reviewers via tag recommendation [23, 43]
subtask. Since the quality and responsiveness of public code reviews typically rely on manual
efforts by developers, which can be labor-intensive, the demand for transitioning from manual
reviews to intelligent services has gradually emerged.
   Existing methods on PCR are mostly based on pre-trained language models. However, these mod-
els typically exhibit generalized capabilities, and their understanding of domain-specific knowledge
in the PCR field, such as code-related semantic patterns, still has room for improvement. Early
work regarded code snippets as non-linguistic characters, which impeded the model’s performance
in understanding technical content. For example, the TagDC method proposed by Li et al. [22]
and the PROFIT model proposed by Nie et al. [31] treated code snippets as irrelevant information
and discarded them altogether. Recent studies have discovered valuable semantic information
embedded in code snippets, but these studies mostly employed the same processing methods as
they do with text [16, 42]. Knowledge enhancement can effectively address the gaps in existing
models when handling programming terms and error patterns. For instance, entries on algorithms,
programming languages, and common programming errors can help the model better understand
the functionality and potential issues of complex code snippets, thus improving its performance in
PCR tasks.


1 https://codereview.stackexchange.com/questions/284179/proper-implementation-of-signal-handler-and-multithreading-

pthread


ACM Trans. Softw. Eng. Methodol., Vol. 0, No. 0, Article 0. Publication date: August 2025.
Knowledge-Guided Prompt Learning for Request Quality Assurance in Public Code Review                                0:3




                                                                                      Title




                                                                               Description



                   Quality




                                                    Tags


                             Fig. 1. An Example of a Public Code Review Request.




   To this end, we propose Knowledge-guided Prompt learning for Public Code Review (KP-PCR).
Specifically, we first design a task-descriptive prompt template that restructures the request necessity
prediction subtask and the tag recommendation subtask into a generative task through a knowledge-
guided prompt template, and input the request body (including tags and descriptions) into the
prompt construction module of a language model. We reformulate both subtasks via 1) text
prompt tuning which converts two subtasks into Masked Language Model (MLM) by constructing
prompt templates using hard prompt; and 2) knowledge and code prefix tuning which introduces
knowledge guidance from fine-tuned DeepSeek by soft prompt, and uses program dependence
graph to characterize code snippets. Finally, the request necessity prediction and recommendation
tags output predicted results through an answer engineering module. In addition, we delve deeper
into the time complexity analysis of our KP-PCR with lightweight prefix based operations to
introducing knowledge, which reveals that our KP-PCR can improve task accuracy performance
without compromising overall efficiency. Experimental results demonstrate that our KP-PCR
outperforms baselines in terms of accuracy-related metrics across both subtasks. Furthermore, we
explore the impact of prompt learning construction and knowledge guidance sources on the results,
and use a case study to compare our KP-PCR with Llama3, CodeLlama and DeepSeek.
   The main contributions of this study can be summarized as follows:

                             ACM Trans. Softw. Eng. Methodol., Vol. 0, No. 0, Article 0. Publication date: August 2025.
0:4


      • From the perspective of developers, to satisfy the request quality assurance, a unified method,
        called KP-PCR, is proposed for the request necessity prediction subtask and the tag recom-
        mendation subtask.
      • We introduce knowledge guidance from fine-tuned DeepSeek to enhance the model’s semantic
        understanding of domain knowledge in developers’ PCR requests.
      • Experimental results on the PCR dataset for the time span 2011-2023 demonstrate that our
        KP-PCR outperforms the baselines of two request quality assurance subtasks.

   This paper extends the preliminary version of our study, as presented in [10]. In comparison, this
extended version (1) introduces knowledge guidance from fine-tuned DeepSeek to generate prefix
vectors as soft prompt for the representation of code snippets, (2) changes the code parsing mode
to PDG to get more control dependency information, (3) analyzes the time complexity to prove that
our KP-PCR can improve the accuracy of request necessity prediction and tag recommendation
while maintaining the overall efficiency of our KP-PCR method, (4) comprehensively evaluates the
effects of our task-descriptive prompt template to explore the influence of knowledge guidance
and code parsing on unifiedly modelling the above two subtasks, and (5) conducts a case study to
compare our KP-PCR with Llama3, CodeLlama and DeepSeek. Additionally, we have examined the
challenges of how to design hard and soft prompt templates and delved further into the originally
explored unified modelling in the initial study. More details on the extension points compared to
our preliminary study in [10] can be found in Section 7.6.
   The remainder of this paper is structured as follows. Section 2 presents a motivating example,
and Section 3 introduces the task addressed in this paper. Section 4 details the proposed method.
Section 5 provides the experimental setup, and Section 6 discusses the experiment results and
presents a case study to explore the utilization of knowledge guidance by our KP-PCR. Section 7
describes the related work. Section 8 concludes this work with future directions.

2     Motivating Example
Public Code Review (PCR) differs from internal team code reviews in its service format, as the
quality of the PCR process primarily depends on the developers who write and submit review
requests, rather than on the reviewers themselves. While existing research has been effective in
improving review quality, there remains significant room for improvement. One of the limitations
of the current approach is that pre-trained language models still require improvement in their
ability to learn domain-specific knowledge. The text of review requests may also include vocabulary
that is absent from the language model’s training data. During tokenization, the model may split
these out-of-vocabulary words into subwords or individual characters, which limits its ability to
accurately process the text and complete PCR tasks.
   Table 1 provides an example from the tag recommendation subtask, in which the review request
includes the abbreviation “OOP” to describe a concept. However, this term is not covered by the
language model, and the model may struggle to connect “OOP” with its full form, “Object Oriented
Programming”. In contrast, knowledge guidance provides definitions that link these terms, helping
to resolve such discrepancies.
   To address this limitation, we propose fine-tuning a large pre-trained model, such as DeepSeek.
By fine-tuning DeepSeek-7B on Wikipedia’s extensive collection of programming terminology, tech-
nical definitions, and domain-specific concepts, we can improve the model’s ability to understand
and generate code-related content more accurately. This approach allows the model to internal-
ize valuable knowledge during the training process, ensuring that the learned domain-specific
knowledge is embedded directly within the model’s parameters.

ACM Trans. Softw. Eng. Methodol., Vol. 0, No. 0, Article 0. Publication date: August 2025.
Knowledge-Guided Prompt Learning for Request Quality Assurance in Public Code Review                                  0:5


                              Table 1. Example of Professional Knowledge Guidance

                       Data                               Tag                     Knowledge Guidance
      An online store, being converted from       object oriented         Object-oriented programming
      procedural to OOPI just start to learn                             (OOP) is a programming paradigm
      OOP, and it’s far more interesting than                           based on the concept of objects, which
        procedural style.I have a complete                                                ...
         working online store written in
               procedural style...


3     Task Description
In the PCR process conducted by the SQA community, the quality assurance of requests primarily
relies on developers. Developers are required to submit necessary PCR requests to the community,
and the necessity of these requests is assessed publicly via the request necessity prediction
subtask after submission. At the same time, developers need to select several technical terms as
review tags, which can be used to match requests with appropriate reviewers through the tag
recommendation subtask.
   In this section, we will first describe a public code review process, and then outline how these
request quality assurance subtasks (request necessity prediction and tag recommendation) serve
the public code review process. This process consists of five core steps (as shown in Fig. 2), starting
from the submission of changes or optimization requests by the code developer in Step ○,     1 to the
submission of reviews by reviewers in Step ○.  5

3.1     Public Code Review Process
First, the public code review process will be introduced through an example of public code review.
As shown in Fig. 2, a review process can be abstracted into 5 steps, labeled as ○-1 ○.5 Code review
typically involves two roles: the developer who submits the code request and the reviewer
who provides suggestions and comments. In Step ○,            1 the developer writes and submits a
review request. In Step ○,  2 practitioners in the community review and evaluate the requests to
allocate necessary feedback. Subsequently, in Step ○,3 developers are asked to select several relevant
technical terms to accompany their request. These tags are then used in Step ○       4 to match the
request with appropriate reviewers, who provide their feedback on the code in Step ○.    5
    In a review request, there are often many changes and optimizations needed in different parts of
the code. Reviewers need to spend a significant amount of time reviewing all the changes. However,
it is often the case that most changes are minor and do not require comments or suggestions. Li
et al. [26] initially considered the task of assessing code change quality in the internal team code
review process, which involves predicting whether a code change is of high quality and ready to be
accepted in the review process. This work enhances the efficiency and quality of the review process
by pre-evaluating before the request is reviewed. Therefore, transitioning to the public code review
process, there is a task need for predicting request necessity. Request necessity prediction learns
from the existing conventions of public code review and community feedback to determine the
standards for submitting review requests, thereby ensuring review quality and reducing the time
cost of unnecessary requests.
    The task of tag recommendation is common in the software engineering community, typically
used for labeling requests and enhancing visibility. In public code review, reviewers browse request
content and conduct evaluations based on these tags. Therefore, appropriate tag recommendations
contribute to improving review efficiency.

                               ACM Trans. Softw. Eng. Methodol., Vol. 0, No. 0, Article 0. Publication date: August 2025.
0:6



                                                                                      Statistics Obtained by Reviewers
      (1) Post a Review Request
                                                                                                Based on Tags

                                                                          Title




                                                                          Code
      (5) Guide to Optimize
                              Quality                                                                   Personal Page

                                                                                    (4) Submit Review     Reviewer
         Developer
                                                                     Description       Comments




      (2) Choose Porper Tags                                                        (3) Guide to Find
                                                                          Tags

                                        Requests from Code Review Sites


                                   Fig. 2. An Example of a Public Code Review Process.



   Overall, our task logic will focus on two processes initiated by developers, aiming to optimize
the services of public code review. This includes integrating the task of predicting request necessity
with Step ○,2 to provide necessary feedback to practitioners in advance. This can guide them
to optimize request expressions and improve request visibility while reducing the time spent by
reviewers in Step ○.
                   5 Additionally, the tag recommendation task is associated with Step ○, 4 allowing
requests to be correctly matched with appropriate reviewers based on the usage of tags in the PCR
community.

3.2    Request Quality Assurance Task Definition
The effectiveness of the PCR process depends on the interaction between developers and reviewers.
However, this interaction can be time-consuming due to the need to identify issues, find suitable
reviewers, etc. While current methods focus on reducing the time cost for reviewers, they overlook
the impact of developers on the review process. For the PCR process, code review requests that
comply with review standards are crucial for high-quality review responses and a conducive
community atmosphere. To address this issue, this study proposes a quality assurance service
for public code review, mainly relying on the request necessity prediction subtask and the tag
recommendation subtask.
   When considering a request in public code review, it is assumed that there exists a corpus of
public code review requests (denoted as 𝑅), a set of tag labels (denoted by 𝐿), and a set of quality
labels for all PCR requests (denoted by 𝑄). Typically, given a public code review request 𝑟𝑒𝑞𝑖 ∈ 𝑅,

ACM Trans. Softw. Eng. Methodol., Vol. 0, No. 0, Article 0. Publication date: August 2025.
Knowledge-Guided Prompt Learning for Request Quality Assurance in Public Code Review                                0:7


the request consists of a title 𝑡𝑖𝑡𝑙𝑒 𝑖 ∈ 𝑇 , and a description 𝑑𝑒𝑠 𝑖 ∈ 𝐷, where the description 𝑑𝑒𝑠 𝑖
includes both text 𝑡𝑒𝑥 𝑖 and code snippets 𝑐𝑜𝑑𝑒 𝑖 .
   (1) The subtask of request necessity prediction. The objective of the request necessity
prediction is to obtain the function quality that maps 𝑟 to the necessity label 𝑞 ∈ 𝑄. A public code
review request 𝑟𝑒𝑞𝑖 corresponds to a necessity label 𝑞𝑟 . Therefore, the necessity prediction subtask
can be regarded as a classification problem. The goal is to determine an optimal function 𝑓 that
maps the necessity label 𝑞 to a label similar to the actual necessity label 𝑞𝑟 .
   (2) The subtask of tag recommendation. The objective of the tag recommendation subtask is
to obtain a function that maps 𝑟𝑒𝑞𝑖 to a set of labels 𝑙 = {𝑙 1, 𝑙 2, . . . , 𝑙𝑚 } ⊂ 𝐿 that are most relevant to
the request 𝑟 . A review request 𝑟𝑒𝑞𝑖 corresponds to several labels, where 𝑙𝑟 = {𝑙𝑟 1, 𝑙𝑟 2, . . . , 𝑙𝑟𝑘 } ⊂ 𝑙,
𝑘 represents the number of true labels of the review request. Therefore, the tag recommendation
subtask can be viewed as a multi-label classification problem. The goal is to identify an optimal
function 𝑓𝑡𝑎𝑔𝑟 𝑒𝑐 that maps the label subset 𝑙 to the true label set 𝑙𝑟 as closely as possible.
   (3) Unified task definition. We design a descriptive prompt template for the two subtasks,
summarized as: 𝑇 (·) = “𝑥 [𝑀𝐴𝑆𝐾]” (where 𝑥 represents a text string). The input sequence 𝑟 of
the request is passed through this descriptive prompt and refactored into 𝑟 𝑝𝑟𝑜𝑚𝑝𝑡 = 𝑇 (𝑟 ). The
request necessity prediction and tag recommendation subtasks are made by filling in the position
of [𝑀𝐴𝑆𝐾]. Our unified task is how to improve the proximity of the predicted filler words against
the truth label. We denote the total number of training examples as 𝑁 , the total number of available
labels as 𝑀, and the number of labels in the training data as 𝑙. The number of 𝑀𝐴𝑆𝐾 is determined
by the maximum length of the labels in the two subtasks.

4     KP-PCR Method
In this section, we propose a knowledge-guided prompt learning for PCR called KP-PCR to address
the issue of insufficient learning of professional knowledge in public code review.

4.1    Framework Overview
Fig. 3 illustrates the overall framework of KP-PCR which has two modules, knowledge-guided
prompt learning module and answer engineering module.
   The knowledge-guided prompt learning module consists of text prompt, code prompt and
knowledge-guided prompt. First, the request text is input into prompt learning module. The text
prompt reconstructs the request text into a generative task, and the code prompt refactors the code
snippets in text into the form of program dependence graph. These processes are described in more
detail in Section 4.2. The request is then fed into the fine-tuned DeepSeek. The text generated by
DeepSeek is used as knowledge guidance, which is then fed into the model in the form of prefix
vectors. Further, the obtained prompt template is input into the Masked Language Model (MLM) to
get the predicted word list. Then the answer engineering module maps the predicted words to the
label list to get the final labels.

4.2    Unified Prompt Template Design
4.2.1 Text Prompt. This subsection elaborates on the process of restructuring subtasks through
task descriptive prompt templates, which involves the following two steps:
   (1) Task Descriptive Prompt Template
   First, a descriptive prompt template 𝑇 (·) as a hard prompt is applied to map the input request
body 𝑟𝑒𝑞𝐼 = {𝑡𝑖𝑡𝑙𝑒𝑖 , 𝑑𝑒𝑠𝑖 } to prompts. The prompt template retains the original tokens from 𝑟𝑒𝑞𝑖
and includes at least one [MASK] for PLM to fill in label words for both subtasks. Specifically, this
study modifies the descriptive prompt text based on the subtask objectives to reconstruct the data
for different tasks.

                             ACM Trans. Softw. Eng. Methodol., Vol. 0, No. 0, Article 0. Publication date: August 2025.
0:8


  Knowledge Guided Prompt Learning Module
                                                                                                                                                                      Context vector                       Code vector
                                                                 Request Text
                                                                                                                                                                      Template vector                      CLS/SEP vector

                                                                                                                                                                      Learnable vector                     Concat
        External Knowledge                          Base             supervised          Fine-Tuned                              Knowledge
               Base                                 LLM              fine-tuning            LLM                                   Guidance

                                                                                                                                                                                             Code Vectors


       [CLS]            Template                    Title       Description             knowledge                        Code                  [SEP]
                                                                                                                                                                                         Code Encoder
                   T(·) (Template )                         D (Title and Description)              Prefix                        C(PDG)
  [CLS] The request is about [MASK] [MASK] [MASK]       I need optimize my previous code                            a      1         d    3     c                                   Program Dependency
                                                                                             Pl1    Pl2   ... Plm                                                                          Graph

       0   1   2    3   4       5   6   7   8   9       10      11   12     13     14   15   16    17        18     19      20       21   22     23     24
                                                                                                                                                                          Code Vectors Generation
           Tidx = [1,2,3,4,5]                                Tidx = [6,7,8,9,10,11]          Tidx = [12,13,14]           Tidx = [15,16,17,18,19]
                                                                                                                                                             def comb(array):
                                                                                                                                                                  comb = []
                                                                                                                                                                  tcomb = 2 ** len(array) - 1

                                                    Mask Language Model（MLM）                                                                                      for i in range(tcomb + 1):
                                                                                                                                                                     indexes = ("{:0" +
                                                                                                                                                             str(len(array))
                                                                                                                                                             +"d}").format(int(str(bin(i))[2:]))
                            Prediction                                                                    Answer Engineering                                          comb.append(index)
                                                                                                                                                                   return comb
                                                                                                                                                                                                                  Program
                                                                                                                                                                                                   Parse into
                                                               Prediction                      Answer                                                                    Code                        AST
                                                                                                                                                                                                                 Dependency
                                        MLM Head                                 TopK                                   Label List             Output                                                              Graph
                                                                Scores                       Engineering
        h[MASK]         [MASK]
                                                                                                                                                                                  Code Prefix Tuning
      Answer Engineering Module



                                                                     Fig. 3. The Framework of KP-PCR.


  Then, by using the descriptive prompt: “The requested label is [MASK][MASK][MASK]. Is this
request necessary for review? [MASK]”, the tasks of necessity prediction and tag recommendation
are restructured within the same framework.
  Finally, with a guiding prompt “Request: ”, the model is directed to explicitly recognize the
request content, and concatenate the title 𝑡𝑖𝑡𝑙𝑒, description 𝑑𝑒𝑠 (including text content 𝑡𝑒𝑥𝑡 and
code snippet content 𝑐𝑜𝑑𝑒), and the template 𝑇 (·) together. After concatenation, we obtain a text
input 𝑟𝑒𝑞𝑖 for the model, as shown in Equation 1:

                                                                            𝐼𝑛𝑝𝑢𝑡𝑖 = {𝑇 (·) , 𝑡𝑖𝑡𝑙𝑒𝑖 , 𝑑𝑒𝑠𝑖 }                                                                                                            (1)
  (2) Request Text Encoding
  [𝐶𝐿𝑆] and [𝑆𝐸𝑃] are special tokens used in BERT-based pre-trained language models. [𝐶𝐿𝑆] is
used to mark the beginning of a sentence, and the representation vector obtained from the encoder
can be used for subsequent downstream tasks. [𝑆𝐸𝑃] is used to mark the end of a sentence or to
separate two sentences. The input sequences are fed into a tokenizer which identifies each input
with [𝐶𝐿𝑆] and [𝑆𝐸𝑃].
  Next, as shown in Equation 2, the complete input sequence obtained earlier is fed into the model’s
embedding layer for encoding.

                                                             𝐼𝑛𝑝𝑢𝑡𝑖 = {[𝐶𝐿𝑆] ,𝑇 (·) , 𝑡𝑖𝑡𝑙𝑒𝑖 , 𝑑𝑒𝑠𝑖 , [𝐸𝑆𝑃]}                                                                                                             (2)
  The embedding layer of the encoder model initializes each token according to the tokenizer’s
tokenization results. Based on pre-learned vector representations, a representation vector for the
input sequence is obtained.
4.2.2 Code Prompt. This subsection systematically elaborates on the methodology for constructing
prefix vectors based on program dependence analysis.

ACM Trans. Softw. Eng. Methodol., Vol. 0, No. 0, Article 0. Publication date: August 2025.
Knowledge-Guided Prompt Learning for Request Quality Assurance in Public Code Review                                                                                             0:9


   In the label recommendation task, labels are often closely related to the behavior of code under
different control flow paths. Similarly, in the necessity prediction task, it is often essential to
understand both the control logic and the data dependencies within the surrounding context.
Program Dependence Graph (PDG) captures both control dependencies and data dependencies,
allowing for a comprehensive representation of the program execution logic. By hierarchically
parsing code Data Flow Graph (DFG) and Control Flow Graph (CFG), as shown in Figure 4, we
ultimately fuse these structures to build a Program Dependence Graph (PDG), enabling formal
semantic representation of code.
   Firstly, the language of the code snippet is identified, as each programming language has different
coding styles and syntax. Therefore, it is necessary to parse the code snippet for each language,
extract important nodes and variable information in the form of an abstract syntax tree (AST) after
obtaining the language category. Secondly, the abstract syntax tree is further parsed into the form
of DFG and CFG. When converting incomplete code snippets, technique such as filling in gaps with
placeholder nodes is used to handle incomplete connections.
   For a code snippet 𝐶, its DFG is defined as a directed graph 𝐺𝑑 𝑓 𝑔 = (𝑉𝑑 𝑓 𝑔 , 𝐸𝑑 𝑓 𝑔 ). Node set
𝑉𝑑 𝑓 𝑔 = {𝑣 |𝑣 ∈ Variables(𝐶) ∪ Operations(𝐶)} represents variables and operators. Edge set 𝐸𝑑 𝑓 𝑔 =
{ 𝑣𝑖 , 𝑣 𝑗 |𝑣 𝑗 →𝑑 𝑓 𝑔 𝑣𝑖 }, where 𝑣 𝑗 → 𝑣𝑖 denotes a data dependence from 𝑣𝑖 to 𝑣 𝑗 .
   The CFG of code snippet 𝐶 is defined as a directed graph 𝐺𝑐 𝑓 𝑔 = (𝑉𝑐 𝑓 𝑔 , 𝐸𝑐 𝑓 𝑔 ). Node set 𝑉𝑐 𝑓 𝑔 =
{𝑏 |𝑏 ∈ BasicBlocks(𝐶)}, where basic blocks are maximal sequences of branch-free instructions.
Edge set 𝐸𝑐 𝑓 𝑔 = {(𝑏𝑖 , 𝑏 𝑗 )|𝑏𝑖 →𝑐 𝑓 𝑔 𝑏 𝑗 }, where 𝑏𝑖 →𝑐 𝑓 𝑔 𝑏 𝑗 denotes immediate control flow from 𝑏𝑖 to
𝑏𝑗.
   Finally, duplicate nodes between the DFG and CFG are merged to generate PDG with compre-
hensive data and control dependency representation.

                                                                                            Data Flow Graph
                                                                                                      1                2
                                                                                                 a                 b
                                                                                                      6                5
                                                                                                 a                 b
   Source Code               Abstract Syntax Tree (AST)                                              10                8
                                                                                                                                  3     4   Program Dependence Graph
                                                                                                                              x        0
                                                                                                 a                 b
                                               function
                                                                                                     9                 7
                                                                                                                                                 def max(a, b):
                                                                                                 x                 x
                             Name              parameter
  def max(a, b):                                                                                              11                                        if a>b          x=0
                                                                      main part
    x=0               max                 a                b                                              x                Source of
    if b > a:                                                                                                               Values
                             expression
        x=b                                                  if                   return                                                         x=a              x=b
    else:                     assign                                                                  x=0
        x=a                                          conflict                       x                                                                                     Control
                                                                                                                                                       return x
    return x          left             right                                                                                                                            Dependence
                                                                                                     if a>b
                                                      left        Operator          right
                       x                  0                                                                                                                                Data
                                                      a              >               b        x=a                  x=b                                                  Dependence

                                                                                                                            Execution
                                                                                                    return x
                                                                                                                              Path
                                                                                            Control Flow Graph


                                                Fig. 4. A Code Snippet Processing Example.


4.2.3 Knowledge-Guided Prompt. In order to optimize the code representation and better guide
the knowledge embedded in the request text and code snippets, we use the continuous prompting
method (soft prompt) [28] to introduce knowledge guidance. Specifically, we first extract the
professional term from the request using string matching, then initialize the 𝑃𝑝𝑟𝑒 𝑓 𝑖𝑥 vector prefix
by concatenating the knowledge interpretation representation and concatenate the representation

                                     ACM Trans. Softw. Eng. Methodol., Vol. 0, No. 0, Article 0. Publication date: August 2025.
0:10


vector of the program dependence graph of the code snippet after this prefix vector. Finally, the
whole vector is represented as the model code snippet instead of the original code snippet. Further
details on these extensions can be found in Section 4.3.

4.3    Knowledge-Guided Prompt Learning Module
4.3.1 Knowledge-Guided Prompt Learning. Soft prompting is one of the prompting paradigms,
which operates in the embedding space of the model and adjusts the prompt parameters for
downstream tasks. Currently, this method has shown superior performance in other data not in
natural language, such as image encoding and visual question answering [27, 40]. This indicates that
soft prompts are well-suited for learning and optimizing information with such graph structures,
owing to the ability of vector embeddings in the embedding space to better adapt to non-natural
language structures. The PCR task is not merely about code quality detection or generation; it
involves a multi-step code review process, which includes predicting whether the code needs
review and how to select appropriate labels for the code review task. Knowledge-guided learning
in PCR can help the model understand the context of the code and identify common algorithms,
functions, or libraries involved in the code snippets, thereby enhancing the model’s comprehension
and judgment of code review requests.
   To enhance the model’s performance by integrating external knowledge, our framework uses
LLM, specifically introducing the DeepSeek-7B. The reason for choosing this model is that it has
demonstrated proven adaptability in code understanding tasks, and its parameter scale is relatively
small, requiring less computational resources. It can be deployed in an environment with at least
16GB of GPU memory. By performing label retrieval on Wikipedia for the dataset, we have obtained
1,000 articles related to software engineering, programming languages, algorithms, and technical
concepts. These articles are then preprocessed to ensure that their format was suitable for the LLM’s
input requirements. The data was cleaned to remove irrelevant content, leaving only technical
definitions, code examples, and domain-specific knowledge. DeepSeek-7B is then fine-tuned using
a supervised learning approach, with a learning rate of 2 × 10−5 , a batch size of 8, and trained for
10 epochs. Regarding the consumption of inference time, after testing under the condition of a
512-token input, the response time for every 1000 rounds is 8 minutes, and the average response
time per round is 480 milliseconds. The additional computational overhead brought by using LLM
is reasonable and controllable.
   This study uses the labels of specialized terminology as a benchmark and selects words that
are not present in the vocabulary of the pre-trained language model. First, string operations are
used to split words based on spaces. Additionally, the split words undergo fuzzy case, tense, and
part-of-speech transformations. Next, the processed text strings are used for string matching to
extract domain-specific knowledge words contained in each request body, which are then input
into the fine-tuned DeepSeek model to obtain their expert definitions. Finally, the definitions of
domain-specific knowledge words are concatenated to form their representations as input into the
model. And they work in the form of prefix vectors to aid in learning the knowledge within the
request body.
   Here, taking an input request 𝑟𝑒𝑞𝑖 as an example, first, based on the previous data processing,
we can obtain two parts of a PCR request:
   1. Natural language text 𝑡𝑒𝑥𝑡𝑖 , composed of the title and description (text part) of the request;
   2. Code snippet 𝑐𝑜𝑑𝑒𝑖 , representing the code snippet extracted from the description.
   The method for processing the code snippet and constructing the prefix vector is shown in
Algorithm 1. In Step ○,   1 a code snippet 𝑐𝑜𝑑𝑒𝑖 is parsed into a program dependence graph to
represent the dependency relationship among code variables (as shown on the right side of Fig. ??).
Then, in Step ○,2 the variable relationship graph is input into a pre-trained code encoding model for

ACM Trans. Softw. Eng. Methodol., Vol. 0, No. 0, Article 0. Publication date: August 2025.
Knowledge-Guided Prompt Learning for Request Quality Assurance in Public Code Review                               0:11


Algorithm 1 Knowledge-Guided Prompt Learning
Input: 𝑟𝑒𝑞 = (𝑡𝑖𝑡𝑙𝑒, 𝑡𝑒𝑥𝑡, 𝑐𝑜𝑑𝑒)
Output: 𝑟 𝑝𝑟𝑜𝑚𝑝𝑡
             
 1: 𝐺𝑟𝑎𝑝ℎ𝑐 ← 𝐺𝑟𝑎𝑝ℎ (𝑐𝑜𝑑𝑒), 𝐺𝑟𝑎𝑝ℎ (𝑐𝑜𝑑𝑒) represents the program dependence graph of the code
    snippet;
 2: ℎ𝐺𝑟𝑎𝑝ℎ𝑐 ← 𝑃𝐿𝑀 (𝐺𝑟𝑎𝑝ℎ𝑐 ), ℎ𝐺𝑟𝑎𝑝ℎ𝑐 represents the code hidden vector obtained through the
    encoding model;
 3: 𝑘𝑛𝑜𝑤𝑙𝑒𝑑𝑔𝑒 = 𝑟𝑒𝑞 ∩ wiki;
 4: 𝑃𝑝𝑟𝑒 𝑓 𝑖𝑥 = 𝑃𝐿𝑀 (𝑘𝑛𝑜𝑤𝑙𝑒𝑑𝑔𝑒) , 𝑃𝐿𝑀 (𝑘𝑛𝑜𝑤𝑙𝑒𝑑𝑔𝑒) represents the representation vector obtained
    through the n encoding model;               o
       = 𝑇 (·) , 𝑡𝑖𝑡𝑙𝑒, 𝑡𝑒𝑥𝑡,
 5: 𝑟 𝑝𝑟𝑜𝑚𝑝𝑡           g g 𝑃𝑝𝑟𝑒 𝑓 𝑖𝑥 , ℎ𝐺𝑟𝑎𝑝ℎ ;
                                              𝑐
 6: return 𝑟 𝑝𝑟𝑜𝑚𝑝𝑡
              



code tasks to obtain the hidden vector of the code snippet. In this work, the GraphCodeBERT [13]
model is used as the encoding model. In Step ○,          3 professional knowledge terms are extracted
from the request using string matching. Step ○        4 defines a prefix vector 𝑃𝑝𝑟𝑒 𝑓 𝑖𝑥 , then initializes the
prefix vector 𝑃𝑝𝑟𝑒 𝑓 𝑖𝑥 with the representation vector of knowledge processed by the encoding model.
Finally, the entire vector replaces the original code snippet as the model’s code representation.
   Here, 𝑃𝑖𝑑𝑥 is used to represent the sequence of prefix indices, and 𝜎 is used to represent the
non-linear output obtained from the hidden layers of the code pre-trained language model. To
address the issue of low performance and high variance caused by the random initialization of
𝑃𝑝𝑟𝑒 𝑓 𝑖𝑥 , we initialize the prefix vector 𝑃𝑝𝑟𝑒 𝑓 𝑖𝑥 with the text of knowledge guidance and then use an
immutable program dependence graph based on semantic relationships to represent the meaning
of individual code snippets. This allows us to guide the model to learn professional knowledge from
the request text through knowledge guidance and to globally and locally understand the meaning
of each code snippet through the form of prefix vectors.
   In order to measure the efficiency of Algorithm 1, we analyze its time complexity. To this end, we
consider the computational overhead in each step. In Step ○,        1 the size of a code snippet determines
the time complexity to convert code into a program dependence graph. If there are 𝑛 variables or
code fragments in the code snippet, generating a program dependence graph requires checking
the dependencies between each pair of variables, and consequently the time complexity is 𝑂 𝑛 2 .
Then, in Step ○,   2 the time complexity of GraphCodeBERT generally depends on the architecture
of its pre-trained model and the input graph size of a program dependence graph. Overall, the
complexity of Step 2 can be seen as 𝑂 (𝑉 + 𝐸), in which 𝑉 is the number            of nodes in the graph, and
𝐸 is the number of edges. The complexity of this step is also 𝑂 𝑛 2 , because the encoding process
                                                                           
is proportional to the size of the graph. Step ○       3 uses string matching whose time complexity is
𝑂 (𝑠), in which 𝑠 is the length of the request text. The time complexity of Step ○           4 depends on the
size of the encoding model and the length of the knowledge representation vector. The process of
initializing a vector can be regarded as a constant time operation, and the complexity is 𝑂 (𝑑), in
which 𝑑 is the length of the    vector. Therefore, the overall time complexity of the algorithm can be
expressed as 𝑂 𝑛 2 + 𝑠 + 𝑑 . Since the complexity         of language
                                                                     model representation is much higher
                                             2 ≫ 𝑂 (𝑠) and 𝑂 𝑛 2 ≫ 𝑂 (𝑑), and the time complexity can
                                              
than that of string matching,      i.e., 𝑂 𝑛
also be expressed as 𝑂 𝑛 2 .
                               
   Our preliminary study [10], where the time complexity is also 𝑂 𝑛 2 , has an actual runtime of
                                                                                 
approximately 8 hours per epoch. The actual runtime of each epoch for our KP-PCR method is
about 8 hours and 20 minutes, which is nearly the same. However, it can be found that according

                             ACM Trans. Softw. Eng. Methodol., Vol. 0, No. 0, Article 0. Publication date: August 2025.
0:12


to the experimental results in Section 6, our KP-PCR method can improve the task accuracy of
request necessity prediction and tag recommendation.
4.3.2 Loss Function. Fig. 5 formalizes the construction of task inputs through an example request,
showcasing the joint construction of task description prompt templates (hard prompt) and prefix
vectors (soft prompt). It is divided into trainable vector parts and frozen vector parts that are not
involved in training.

                                                                    Trainable                                                                      Frozen
                       T(·) (Template )                                              Text                         Prefix         code (Variable relation Graph)
                                                                                                                                                                        Example
 [CLS] The request is about [MASK] [MASK] [MASK] I need optimize my previous code                            P1     P2     P3      a       1         d    3     [SEP]   The topic of the request is [MASK]. This request
                                                                                                                                                                        necessity is [MASK] . It is about the topic of this
                                                                                                                                                                        request.
  0       1        2       3        4       5       6       7       8   9     10   11    12    13      14    15     16      17      18      19      20    21     22     Title: Getting all combinations of an array by looping
                                                                                                                                                                        through binary numbers
                   Tidx = [1,2,3,4,5,6,7,8]                                 Tidx = [9,11,12,13,14]          Pdx = [15,16,17]           Cidx = [18,19,20,21,22]
                                                                                                                                                                        Description: I need to loop through all possible
                                                                                                                                                                        combinations of an array for a project I'm doing. Here is
                                                            hard prompt                                                          soft prompt
                                                                                                                                                                        my code:
                                                                                                                                                                        Code:
                                                                    Trainable                                                                      Frozen               def bcomb(array):
                                                                                                                                 code (Variable relation Graph)              comb = []
                       T(·) (Template )                                             Text                          Prefix
                                                                                                                                                                             tcomb = 2 ** len(array) - 1
   [CLS] The necessity of the request is [MASK]                         I need optimize my previous code     P1     P2     P3          a       1     d      3   [SEP]
                                                                                                                                                                             for i in range(tcomb + 1):
                                                                                                                                                                                indexes = ("{:0" + str(len(array))
                                                                                                                                                                        +"d}").format(int(str(bin(i))[2:]))
      0       1        2        3       4       5       6       7       8      9    10    11   12      13                                                                        comb.append(ccomb)
                                                                                                            14     15      16      17      18       19    20    21
                                                                                                                                                                              return comb
                  Tidx = [1,2,3,4,5,6,7]                                    Tidx = [8,9,10,11,12,13]        Pidx = [14,15,16]          Cidx = [17,18,19,20,21]            Tags: C \posix\pthreads\signal-handling

                                                            hard prompt                                                          soft prompt
                               Context vector                Code vector             Template vector        CLS/SEP vector             Learnable vector




                                                                                     Fig. 5. Trainable and Frozen Parameters.

   First, the obtained text segment vector and code snippet vector are concatenated into the input
prompt of the Masked Language Model (MLM). Within the entire input e         𝑐 is an immutable vector,
while the rest of the vectors are updated based on the gradient optimization target. As shown in
Fig. 5, the vector e
                   𝑐 = ℎ𝐺𝑟𝑎𝑝ℎ𝑐 is encoded by the hidden layer of the pre-trained code language model
is frozen and not updated, whereas the prefix is initialized using the code snippet text. Finally, the
vector ℎ𝑃𝑅𝐸𝐹 𝐼𝑋𝑖 can be trained. The dimensions of the code   prefix tuning initialization trainable
matrix 𝑃𝜎 (parameterized by 𝜎) are |𝑃𝑖𝑑𝑥 | × dim ℎ𝑋 𝑝𝑟𝑒 𝑓 𝑖𝑥𝑖 to store the prefix parameters.
   Since multiple [MASK] tokens may appear in the descriptive prompt template, all masked
positions are considered for prediction. The final learning objective of our KP-PCR framework is to
consider multiple [MASK] tokens in a descriptive prompt template, using the sum of losses from
all [MASK] positions to optimize the model. Specifically, the final learning objective of KP-PCR is
to maximize Equation 3:
                                                                           𝑛                                    
                                                                         Ö
                                                    log 𝑝𝜙 𝐿𝑎𝑏𝑙𝑒𝑝𝑟𝑒 |𝑅𝑒𝑞 =   𝑝𝜙 [𝑀𝐴𝑆𝐾] 𝑗 = 𝜑 𝑗 (𝑙𝑎𝑏𝑒𝑙𝑟 ) |𝑇 (𝑟𝑒𝑞) ,                                                                                                              (3)
                                                                                                             𝑗=1
   where 𝜑 is the predicted probability distribution, and 𝜑 𝑗 (𝑙𝑎𝑏𝑒𝑙𝑟 ) represents the mapping from the
𝑗-th ℎ𝑀𝐴𝑆𝐾 token to the requested label word 𝑙𝑎𝑏𝑒𝑙 in the input sequence. 𝜙 denotes the parameters
of the language model that are updatable. 𝑛 is the number of masked positions in the descriptive
prompt template 𝑇 (𝑟𝑒𝑞).

4.4           Answer Engineering Module
After training the model with Equation 3, the final labels need to be obtained, so the answer
engineering module maps the predicted words to the label list. The answer engineering module
maps the 𝑇𝑂𝑃𝐾 token list 𝑝𝑟𝑒𝑙𝑖𝑠𝑡𝑖 to the predicted labels 𝑓𝑎𝑛𝑠 𝑝𝑟𝑒𝑙𝑖𝑠𝑡𝑖 through a mapping function

ACM Trans. Softw. Eng. Methodol., Vol. 0, No. 0, Article 0. Publication date: August 2025.
Knowledge-Guided Prompt Learning for Request Quality Assurance in Public Code Review                              0:13


𝑓𝑎𝑛𝑠 . The answer engineering function 𝑓𝑎𝑛𝑠  maps the predicted words to the final label set 𝐿𝑎𝑏𝑒𝑙.
Finally, the mapped answer 𝑓𝑎𝑛𝑠 𝑝𝑟𝑒𝑙𝑖𝑠𝑡𝑖 is the final top-k outputs 𝑣𝑖 . The mapping function of
the answer engineering first compares the predicted words with the label word list to find the
complete label by predicting partial label words. Secondly, for data where the predicted words do
not exist in the entire label word list, the mapping is completed using the minimum edit distance
algorithm. Edit distance, also known as Levenshtein distance, refers to the minimum number of
editing operations required to transform one string into another. For example, for the strings “if”
and “iff”, you can achieve the transformation by inserting or deleting a “f”.
   In general, the smaller the edit distance between two strings, the more similar they are. If two
strings are equal, their edit distance is 0 (no operations are needed). In this study, edit distance is
used to evaluate the distance between predicted words and true words. If a predicted word is not in
the list of true word labels, then by calculating the edit distance between the predicted word and
all true words, we can find the true word with the minimum edit distance to the predicted word,
thus correcting the predicted word.

5     Experimental Setup
5.1    Research Questions
Our research goal is to provide quality assurance services for PCR from the perspective of developers.
Therefore, our method is evaluated from the following three questions.

 RQ1: Can our KP-PCR effectively deal with the request necessity prediction subtask and the tag
 recommendation subtask in a unified modelling?

   Our method and SOTA models are applied to examine necessity prediction and tag recommenda-
tion subtasks respectively, and their performance on the two subtasks is evaluated.

 RQ2: Is our knowledge-guided prompt learning effective for PCR?

  Different prompt templates are explored to know the influence of propmt learning on model
performance under different designs.

 RQ3: How does our unified prompt template perform compared large language models?

  we fine-tuned Llama3, CodeLlama and DeepSeek using the entire training dataset, and then
evaluated them on the test set, comparing their performance with our model.

5.2    Dataset and Metrics
5.2.1 Dataset Description. To evaluate the effectiveness of our KP-PCR, experimental data is from
the Code Review site within Stack Exchange, a reputable and well-known information-sharing
platform. The selection of the dataset follows the criteria of being open, authoritative, and current.
Stack Exchange is a large network of question and answer (Q&A) websites covering a wide range of
topics, including but not limited to software domains such as programming, Linux & Unix, and code
review. Each website within this network focuses on a specific theme, and the questions, answers,
and users are subject to reputation-based recognition within their respective communities.
   In the field of software engineering, there are several traditional public code review platforms
such as GitHub and Reddit. Stack Exchange is a Q&A-based community that encourages quick
feedback. Any developer can submit code snippets without the need to provide a complete project
or engage in complex version control, making it highly accessible and ideal for extracting smaller,
isolated code review requests. This contrasts with GitHub, which is more focused on project-driven

                            ACM Trans. Softw. Eng. Methodol., Vol. 0, No. 0, Article 0. Publication date: August 2025.
0:14


collaboration, and Reddit, where the review process is often informal and may lack in-depth
technical feedback. Unlike Reddit, where feedback is typically provided through informal post
comments and may lack the necessary technical depth, Stack Exchange provides a more structured
environment for feedback. Users are encouraged to give specific, detailed responses, and reviews
often involve technical explanations and recommendations. This level of technical detail makes
Stack Exchange an ideal environment for extracting meaningful data for public code review tasks.
   As we are dedicated to providing intelligent service methods for the code review process, the
most popular public code review website on Stack Exchange, Code Review2 , is used as the data
source for this study. The dataset from Code Review used for this study is the latest and largest
original data version available from 2011 to 20233 . It records the main content and quality label of
PCR requests in separate XML files.
   Code Review website, which is positioned as peer code review conducted in the form of SQA
(Software Quality Assurance). It aims to facilitate a quick and convenient code review process to
accelerate the exchange of professional knowledge among peer developers. Any developer can
initiate a review request within the community. Professional reviewers in the community then
browse through and assess the necessity of the request. Subsequently, the developer selects appro-
priate tags for the request to match the corresponding reviewers. The dataset collects information
on the requests content, the necessity of the request, and the corresponding tags.

5.2.2 Data Preprocessing. To align with the model input requirements of the baseline methods in
Section 5.3.2, we have divided the overall data preprocessing into four steps as detailed below.
   (1) XML File Parsing: There are two common parsing methods for XML files: 1. DOM parsing
which involves converting an XML document into a DOM tree, allowing access to XML document
information through a hierarchical object model, describing the information in a node tree format.
This parsing method offers flexible access but may suffer from long processing times and memory
overflow issues due to machine performance factors. 2. SAX parsing, unlike DOM parsing, operates
in a sequential access mode for reading and writing XML files. When using this method to parse
XML files, multiple event handling functions need to be written for various data in the file, but it
consumes less memory. Due to hardware constraints, this study adopts SAX parsing, resulting in
an HTML formatted file.
   (2) Data Cleaning and Code Snippet Extraction: Since the XML file contains noise such as
URLs, garbled characters, HTML tags, tabs, and line breaks, this step designs regular expressions
for the HTML file obtained in Step (1) to remove noise and irrelevant characters. Specifically, the
BeautifulSoup library is used to identify HTML tags and separate the text, code snippets, and
tags in the request objects. For example, code snippets are collected using the HTML element
<code>...</code>.
   (3) Necessity Determination: The distribution of request vote scores on the Code Review site
is analyzed. It is observed that the distribution follows a power-law pattern, exhibiting a “long-tail”
characteristic in which most posts receive relatively low scores, while a small proportion obtain
significantly higher scores. In such distributions, the upper percentile (e.g., top 40–50%) of items are
often regarded as high-quality “core contributions” recognized by the community [30]. The analysis
showed that, in the Code Review community, requests with a score of at least 4 corresponded
precisely to the top 43%. Therefore, requests with a vote score of at least 4 are classified as necessary
requests, whereas those below this threshold are considered unnecessary requests. This resulted in
a total of 26,632 necessary requests and 35,056 unnecessary requests.

2 https://codereview.stackexchange.com/
3 https://archive.org/download/stackexchange/codereview.stackexchange.com.7z



ACM Trans. Softw. Eng. Methodol., Vol. 0, No. 0, Article 0. Publication date: August 2025.
Knowledge-Guided Prompt Learning for Request Quality Assurance in Public Code Review                              0:15


                               Table 2. Public Code Review Dataset Statistics

                                                            Training Set     Validation Set    Test Set
                             All Data                          61688              6855           7616
                     Quality Necessity Task
                           Necessary                           26632              2959           3288
                         Unnecessary                           35056              3896           4328
                  Tag Recommendation Task
            Average Number of Tags / Request Object             2.95              2.89            2.94
                Average Number of Words / Tag                   2.89              2.89            2.89


   (4) Tag Filtering and Cleaning: The dataset contains a large number of low-frequency tags.
The main reasons for the low frequency of tags are that they do not conform to developers’ usage
habits, have weak relevance to the topic, or have low discussion relevance. Previous studies have
considered a tag as rare if its frequency is below a predefined threshold 𝜃 [42]. Intuitively, if a tag
appears infrequently in such a large dataset, it is not widely recognized by developers. To mitigate
the impact on the quality of training and testing data, these rare tags are removed. Consistent with
previous research, this study sets the threshold 𝜃 for rare tags to 50, and all requests and tags that
are rare or contain only rare tags are removed. The statistical information of the cleaned dataset is
shown in Table 2. Finally, a dataset containing 76,161 requests and 424 tags is obtained.
   (5) Tag Processing and Vocabulary Addition: Unlike other topic information stations, the
tags in the Code Review involve specialized terms. In addition to common language tags such as
“java” and “python,” there are also specific version-related tags such as “c++13” and “python3.x”.
The prompt learning method needs to learn and predict based on the words in the vocabulary.
Since the model’s tokenization automatically divides words based on symbols, tags are designed as
expressions in natural language and added to the model’s vocabulary by writing function rules.
This preprocessing of tags is not necessary for baseline methods that do not require the use of a
vocabulary for prediction.
   Following previous research, we have utilized the common ten-fold cross-validation method to
split the dataset. Specifically, we initially randomly have divided the dataset into 10 equally sized
subsets. One of these subsets is selected as the test set. The remaining data samples are split into
training and validation sets in an 8:1 ratio. This process is repeated during model training to test
the model’s effectiveness, and the results is averaged to assess model performance. In summary, the
dataset is split into training, validation, and test sets in an 8:1:1 ratio. Detailed statistical information
is provided in Table 2.
5.2.3 Evaluation Metrics. For the tag recommendation subtask, previous recommendation tasks in
the SQA community [23] have used Precision@k, Recall@k and F1@k to evaluate performance. To
maintain consistency, this study adopts the same evaluation metrics. Consistent with the review
necessity subtask and the comment quality prediction subtask in the PCR domain [32], Accuracy
and F1 are selected as metrics. The following will provide a detailed introduction to these evaluation
metrics.
   (1) 𝑇𝑜𝑝 − 𝑘 Precision 𝑃𝑟𝑒𝑐𝑖𝑠𝑖𝑜𝑛@𝑘: This metric is commonly used in recommendation-related
methods, measuring the proportion of true labels among the top 𝑘 labels recommended by a model.
For a single request, the calculation of its 𝑇𝑜𝑝 − 𝑘 Accuracy is shown in Equation 4 which computes
𝑃𝑟𝑒𝑐𝑖𝑠𝑖𝑜𝑛@𝑘𝑖 by calculating the intersection of predicted labels 𝑣𝑘𝑖 with the corresponding true
labels 𝑇 𝑡𝑎𝑔𝑖 for each request object. Since a public code review dataset contains multiple requests,

                            ACM Trans. Softw. Eng. Methodol., Vol. 0, No. 0, Article 0. Publication date: August 2025.
0:16


when calculating accuracy metrics for the entire dataset, the average accuracy results for all requests
need to be taken into account. The specific calculation method is shown in Equation 5 which
represents the average accuracy of all request objects, calculated by first computing 𝑃𝑟𝑒𝑐𝑖𝑠𝑖𝑜𝑛@𝑘𝑖
for each request object, and then averaging them to represent 𝑃𝑟𝑒𝑐𝑖𝑠𝑖𝑜𝑛@𝑘.

                                                                  |𝑇 𝑡𝑎𝑔𝑖 ∩ 𝑣𝑘𝑖 |
                                          𝑃𝑟𝑒𝑐𝑖𝑠𝑖𝑜𝑛@𝑘𝑖 =                                            (4)
                                                                        𝑘
                                                            |𝑅
                                                            Í|
                                                                  𝑃𝑟𝑒𝑐𝑖𝑠𝑖𝑜𝑛@𝑘𝑖
                                                           𝑖=1
                                        𝑃𝑟𝑒𝑠𝑖𝑠𝑜𝑛@𝑘 =                                              (5)
                                                           |𝑅|
   (2) 𝑇𝑜𝑝 − 𝑘 Recall 𝑅𝑒𝑐𝑎𝑙𝑙@𝑘: This metric is used to evaluate the model’s ability to predict
the complete set of true labels. Specifically, it measures the proportion of true labels that are
contained in the predicted labels. The 𝑇𝑜𝑝 − 𝑘 Recall for a single request object, 𝑅𝑒𝑐𝑎𝑙𝑙@𝑘𝑖 , is
calculated as shown in Equation 6. In this work, due to the true label length range being 3-5, and
following the metrics settings of recommendation-related methods, 𝑘 is set to 3, 5, and 10 in this
study. Similarly, since there are multiple request objects in the public code review dataset, the
performance calculation of Recall metric 𝑅𝑒𝑐𝑎𝑙𝑙@𝑘 for the entire dataset is shown in Equation 7.
The average recall rate of all request objects is calculated to represent the model’s performance on
this metric.

                                                       𝑇 𝑡𝑎𝑔𝑖 ∩𝑣𝑘𝑖
                                                                     , 𝑖 𝑓 |𝑇 𝑎𝑔𝑖 | < 𝑘,
                                              
                                              
                                              
                                                            𝑘
                                  𝑅𝑒𝑐𝑎𝑙𝑙@𝑘𝑖 =          𝑇 𝑡𝑎𝑔𝑖 ∩𝑣𝑘𝑖
                                                                                                    (6)
                                              
                                                         𝑇 𝑡𝑎𝑔𝑖     , 𝑜𝑡ℎ𝑒𝑟𝑤𝑖𝑠𝑒.
                                              
                                                            |𝑅
                                                            Í|
                                                                  𝑅𝑒𝑐𝑎𝑙𝑙@𝐾𝑖
                                                            𝑖=1
                                            𝑅𝑒𝑐𝑎𝑙𝑙@𝑘 =                                              (7)
                                                      |𝑅|
  (3) 𝑇𝑜𝑝 − 𝑘 Macro-Average 𝐹 1@𝑘: This metric is commonly used to evaluate a model’s overall
performance on precision and recall by calculating the weighted average of these two metrics. It
provides a balanced view of a model’s performance by considering both precision and recall. As
described in Equation 8, the calculation method for the macro-average 𝐹 1@𝑘𝑖 of a single request
object is similar to the previous two metrics, where 𝑘 is set to 3, 5, and 10 in this study. Similarly,
for the overall macro-average metric 𝐹 1@𝑘 of the public code review dataset, its calculation is
shown in Equation 9, derived from the average 𝐹 1 value of all request objects.

                                                    𝑃𝑟𝑒𝑐𝑖𝑠𝑖𝑜𝑛@𝑘𝑖 × 𝑅𝑒𝑐𝑎𝑙𝑙@𝑘𝑖
                                   𝐹 1@𝑘𝑖 = 2 ×                                                     (8)
                                                    𝑃𝑟𝑒𝑐𝑖𝑠𝑖𝑜𝑛@𝑘𝑖 + 𝑅𝑒𝑐𝑎𝑙𝑙@𝑘𝑖
                                                            |𝑅
                                                            Í|
                                                                  𝐹 1@𝑘𝑖
                                                            𝑖=1
                                                𝐹 1@𝑘 =                                             (9)
                                                                   |𝑅|
5.3    Implementation Details
5.3.1 Implementation. In practice, the KP-PCR framework can be applied to various pre-trained
language models, such as BERT [6], RoBERTa [18], ALBERT [39], GPT [18], etc. However, due to
hardware limitations, this study uses the base version of BERT as the encoding model (BERT-base-
uncased), and GraphCodeBERT as the code snippet encoder. In the experiments, the learning rate
of the KP-PCR is set to 1e-5, and the number of epochs is set to 6.

ACM Trans. Softw. Eng. Methodol., Vol. 0, No. 0, Article 0. Publication date: August 2025.
Knowledge-Guided Prompt Learning for Request Quality Assurance in Public Code Review                              0:17


                                     Table 3. Experimental Parameters

                              Name        Parameter          Name           Parameter
                            Max lenth         300         Hidden size         768
                           Prefix lenth        50        Hidden layer          12
                           Code lenth         150        Weight decay          0
                            Batch size         4         Learning rate        1e-5
                              epoch            6          Optimizer          Adamw


                        Table 4. Experimental Environment and Version Information

                                Name                     Version Information
                                GPU                     NVIDIA Titan XP*4
                                CPU             IntelR XeonR E5-2650 v4 @2.20GHz
                          Memory Capacity                     64G*4
                           CUDA Version                        11.0
                           Python Version                      3.5
                          Pytorch Version                      1.7


   This study implements KP-PCR based on the PyTorch framework, and all experimental parameters
are listed in Table 3. The maximum length of the text is set to 300, the length of the prefix vector is
set to 50, and the code representation part of the prefix vector uses a code snippet with a length of
150 to generate the code snippet representation, which is then used for model training and learning
with a length of 100. The code snippet text length that is not optimized for model training is 150.
5.3.2 Baselines. For overall comparisons, a series of state-of-the-art approaches are chosen as base-
lines for the tag recommendation subtask and the request necessityprediction subtask, respectively.
   (1) The request necessity prediction subtask, CommentBERT [32], MetaTransformer [8]
and Commentfinder [18] are baseline methods, which have the same data input structure and task
definition as review necessity prediction subtask.
   (2) The tag recommendation subtask, TagDC [22], PROFIT [31], Post2Vec [42], PTM4Tag [16]
and CDR4Tag [23] are compared for recommending tags to the SQA community.
   Our previous study is also listed for comparison. In this paper, the source code provided by
the baselines is used to fine-tune the parameters and obtain the optimal values to represent the
experimental results of the baselines. For baselines which source code was not provided, this study
reproduced the model design based on Pytorch framework. The related experiments in this study
are conducted on four NVIDIA Titan XP GPUs. All hardware and software environments are shown
in Table 4.

6     Results
6.1    Request Necessity Prediction Subtask (RQ1)
Table 5 shows the KP-PCR experimental results on the request necessity prediction compared with
similarity-based and fine-tuning-based methods.
  In Table 5 it can be seen that KP-PCR achieves the best results compared to the other four
baselines. Overall, the performance of the four methods on the non-necessary label F1 is lower
than that on the necessary label F1. Based on actual data from public code reviews, this is because
requests for unnecessary reviews appear in more diverse forms, such as asking questions about

                            ACM Trans. Softw. Eng. Methodol., Vol. 0, No. 0, Article 0. Publication date: August 2025.
0:18


                     Table 5. Experiment Results of Request Necessity Prediction Subtask

                               Model             Accuracy      F1 Necessary      F1 Unnecessary
                      CommentBERT [32]              0.608          0.606               0.610
                      MetaTransformer [8]           0.623          0.687               0.525
                      Commentfinder [18]            0.616          0.711               0.426
                         UniPCR [10]                0.798          0.817               0.775
                          Our KP-PCR               0.848           0.894              0.795


coding errors (which belong to coding issues rather than code review issues), submitting code that
cannot be executed (which hinders reviewers from reading the code as a whole), and choosing
inappropriate labels (which affects the professionalism of the review). In other words, requests that
meet the review requirements have clearer expressions, executable code, and accurate identification
of review issues.
   (1) Compared to baseline methods, KP-PCR shows improved performance in the review
necessity prediction subtask. As shown in Table 5, KP-PCR achieves a 2.3%-8.4% performance
improvement over the second-best method (UniPCR) by introducing the code snippet optimization
module. This demonstrates the effectiveness of our KP-PCR. By learning the representation of code
snippets within the overall content through soft prompts in the prefix vectors, KP-PCR understands
the differences in various code snippets under the review necessity criteria. During prediction, the
representation in the learned code snippet prefix vectors enhances the prediction performance for
review necessity, resulting in KP-PCR’s improved performance in this subtask.
   (2) Optimizing code snippet representation is effective for the review necessity predic-
tion task. The experimental results indicate that a large amount of representation information
contained in code snippets are not fully utilized in previous traditional architectures. Comment-
BERT [32] and MetaTransformer [8] use pre-trained language models to learn the entire request
content but do not individually process or specially learn the code snippets. Commentfinder [18]
treats the request body as a whole and uses similarity methods for matching. As mentioned earlier,
non-essential tags in the review necessity subtask have more diverse forms and features in the data
compared to essential tags, and these features are more prevalent in code snippets. The experimental
results shown in Table 5 show that extracting potential features from code snippets indeed helps
accomplish the review necessity prediction task.
   (3) Introducing knowledge-guided prefix vectors in prompt learning is more conducive
to learning code snippet representation. KP-PCR achieves an understanding of the differences
in various code snippets by learning the representation of code snippets within the overall content
through prefix vectors in prompt learning. This means that the small prefix vectors, during the
model training process, learn the initialization parameters, allowing the relevant information for
determining necessity to be extracted from the complex information contained in the overall code
snippets. During prediction, the representation in the learned code snippet prefix vectors enhances
the prediction performance for review necessity. Compared to the baselines, using prompt learning
prefix vectors to optimize code snippets is effective.

6.2 Tag Recommendation Subtask (RQ1)
This subsection compares our KP-PCR with state-of-the-art baselines on the tag recommendation
subtask and analyzes the experimental results, in terms of Precision@k, Recall@k and F1@k.
  Tag recommendation subtask facilitates users to intuitively and quickly select the correct tags.
As introduced in Section 3.2, users on code review websites can select 3-5 tags. Therefore, in the

ACM Trans. Softw. Eng. Methodol., Vol. 0, No. 0, Article 0. Publication date: August 2025.
Knowledge-Guided Prompt Learning for Request Quality Assurance in Public Code Review                              0:19


                       Table 6. Experiment Results of Tag Recommendation Subtask

                                   Precision                   Recall                        F1
             Model
                            @3        @5     @10       @3       @5       @10       @3        @5       @10
          TagDC [22]       0.429    0.311   0.189     0.483    0.570     0.678    0.434     0.387    0.288
          PORFIT [31]      0.511    0.368   0.217     0.571    0.668     0.774    0.516     0.456    0.330
         Post2Vec [42]     0.550    0.384   0.223     0.624    0.707     0.799    0.558     0.478    0.339
         PTM4Tag [16]      0.488    0.339   0.199     0.557    0.628     0.720    0.496     0.423    0.303
         CDR4Tag [23]      0.564    0.396   0.227     0.635    0.724     0.806    0.572     0.491    0.345
          UniPCR [10]      0.610    0.436   0.245     0.688    0.792     0.870    0.619     0.541    0.372
         Our KP-PCR       0.626     0.447   0.262     0.701    0.803     0.889    0.647     0.561    0.393


evaluation metrics, this study introduces @3, @5, and @10 as evaluation scopes. In addition, based
on the analysis of the time complexity of our KP-PCR in Section 4.3.1, compared to the preliminary
version of our study [10], our KP-PCR can improve the task accuracy performance without affecting
the overall efficiency.
   (1) Compared to baseline methods, KP-PCR enhances the tag recommendation subtask.
Our KP-PCR outperforms baselines by 1.4%-6.9% in the tag recommendation task. In terms of
handling code snippets, TagDC [22] and PORFIT [31] methods discard code snippets as noise,
while Post2Vec [42] and PTM4Tag [16] methods encode code snippets separately using the same
approach as text segments. The unified modeling of UniPCR adjusts the model architecture through
a prompt learning paradigm. Under the similar architecture, KP-PCR achieves better performance
by designing a unique training method for code snippets while maintaining the advantage of the
unified modeling method, which allows for modeling multiple subtasks.
   (2) Code snippet representation is also effective for the tag recommendation subtask.
Unlike other baseline methods, CDR4Tag [23] designs a matching module for code snippets to
capture potential information, resulting in superior performance compared to other methods. This
matching module is based on similarity design, completing the task by calculating the similarity
between the code snippet and the request body. However, using this similarity-based approach is
still insufficient for learning code snippet representation, as the matching module can only capture
parts of the code snippet that match the text content, lacking direct learning of the overall code
snippet content. The experimental results indicate that focusing on learning code snippet features
rather than discarding code snippet content is necessary for the tag recommendation subtask.
Compared to the proposed KP-PCR, it is evident that using a training method more aligned with
the structure of code snippets leads to better performance in this task.
   (3) Introducing knowledge guidance is helpful for code snippet representation learning.
Compared to UniPCR [10], it is evident that knowledge-guided prompt learning is more effective in
the tag recommendation subtask. As previously mentioned, CDR4Tag [23] constructs code snippets
based on a matching module, but its shortcomings lie in the complexity and difficult migration
of the module, which obscures the information within the code snippets themselves. UniPCR
achieves competitive experimental results by narrowing the gap through task reconstruction, while
KP-PCR achieves superior performance by introducing prefix vectors and program dependence
graph representations of code snippets to learn the professional knowledge within the request
content.
   Overall, KP-PCR shows improvements across all metrics. Compared to the runner-up method
UniPCR, it’s evident that knowledge-guided prompting learning is more effective in the tag recom-
mendation subtask. Moreover, CDR4Tag constructs code snippets based on a matching module,

                            ACM Trans. Softw. Eng. Methodol., Vol. 0, No. 0, Article 0. Publication date: August 2025.
0:20


                                 Table 7. Template Designs for Prompt Learning

                                 Name             Knowledge-Guided             Code Prefix
                             Our KP-PCR        Fine-tuned DeepSeek-7B              PDG
                                 (a)          Fine-tuned CodeLlama-7B              PDG
                                 (b)            Fine-tuned Llama3-8B               PDG
                                 (c)           Fine-tuned DeepSeek-7B              DFG
                                 (d)                  Wikipedia                    PDG
                                 (e)                  Wikipedia                    DFG
                                 (f)                      ×                        DFG


but its drawback lies in the complexity of the module, making it difficult to transfer and obscuring
the information inherent in the code snippets themselves. While KP-PCR achieves even better
performance by introducing prefix vectors and program dependence graph representations of code
snippets for learning the professional knowledge embedded in the request content.

6.3    Effects of Knowledge-Guided Propmt Template Designs (RQ2)
This section conducts experiments on the template designs for prompt learning, aiming to investi-
gate the impact of using different template designs on the model’s performance. Specifically, we
detail the template designs for prompt learning as shown in Table 7.
  (1) Knowledge-Guided Soft Prompt. We explore the impact of different types of knowledge
guidance on model performance. Specifically, we analyze the effects of using (1) fine-tuned LLMs
(DeepSeek, CodeLlama, LLaMA) and (2) general encyclopedic knowledge (Wikipedia) as knowledge
guidance in two subtasks (request necessity prediction and tag recommendation). We fine-tune
CodeLlama and LLaMA in the same manner as described in Section 4.3.1, using the same dataset
and optimizing the fine-tuning parameters to their best values.
  (2) Code Prefix Prompt Construction. We design experiments on different code parsing
methods, converting code into DFG or PDG, to analyze their impact on the experimental results.
                        Table 8. Ablation Experiments of Request Necessity Prediction

                               Model        Accuracy      F1 Necessary      F1 Unnecessary
                           Our KP-PCR          0.848          0.894               0.795
                               (a)             0.845          0.892               0.793
                               (b)             0.836          0.889               0.790
                               (c)             0.838          0.890               0.791
                               (d)             0.835          0.889               0.791
                               (e)             0.830          0.885               0.785
                               (f)             0.745          0.771               0.712

   Table 8 shows the experimental results on the necessity prediction subtask. Table 9 shows the
results of the ablation experiments on the tag recommendation subtask.
   (1) Compared to template (a), (b), and (c), using the fine-tuned DeepSeek as an external knowledge
source outperforms the fine-tuned CodeLlama, Llama3, or directly using Wikipedia. The fine-tuned
DeepSeek improves performance by adjusting model parameters to the needs of specific tasks and
providing more precise knowledge related to code review.
   (2) The results of template (c) compared to our KP-PCR and the results of template (d) compared
to template(e) show that if the code parsing method is changed from DFG to PDG, the accuracy

ACM Trans. Softw. Eng. Methodol., Vol. 0, No. 0, Article 0. Publication date: August 2025.
Knowledge-Guided Prompt Learning for Request Quality Assurance in Public Code Review                              0:21


                          Table 9. Ablation Experiments of Tag Recommendation

                                      Precision                                      Recall
                  Model                                       Model
                                @3       @5     @10                          @3       @5       @10
              Our KP-PCR      0.626    0.447    0.262      Our KP-PCR       0.701    0.803     0.889
                  (a)         0.625    0.446    0.261          (a)          0.699    0.800     0.887
                  (b)         0.619    0.441    0.253          (b)          0.698    0.798     0.882
                  (c)         0.621    0.442    0.255          (c)          0.699    0.799     0.884
                  (d)         0.617    0.442    0.251          (d)          0.696    0.796     0.875
                  (e)         0.613    0.438    0.247          (e)          0.692    0.793     0.871
                  (f)         0.610    0.436    0.245          (f)          0.688    0.792     0.870

                                                               F1
                                       Model
                                                      @3       @5       @10
                                     Our KP-PCR      0.647    0.561     0.393
                                         (a)         0.646    0.559     0.392
                                         (b)         0.642    0.551     0.385
                                         (c)         0.644    0.555     0.388
                                         (d)         0.635    0.548     0.379
                                         (e)         0.622    0.543     0.373
                                         (f)         0.619    0.541     0.372


can be improved by 1.5%. PDG and DFG are two commonly used intermediate representation
methods, modeling the structural information of programs from different perspectives. PDG models
a program as a graph structure composed of statement nodes, with edges representing the composite
relationship of control dependence and data dependence. DFG focuses more on depicting the data
transfer paths among variables in the program, where nodes typically represent variables or
operation units, and edges represent the flow of data. In the PCR tasks we focus on, the model
needs to understand the execution logic of code snippets, judge the context where potential defects
may occur, and make reasonable inferences about complex dependency relationships. We find that
the representation method based on PDG performs more accurately on PCR tasks. This is mainly
attributed to the fact that PDG can simultaneously capture the control structure and data transfer
of a program, possessing higher structural integrity and semantic expressiveness, and providing
more precise context information.
   (3) The results of template (f) show that the accuracy reduces when the external knowledge is
removed, indicating that external knowledge plays an important auxiliary role in this task.

6.4   LLM Baselines (RQ3)
Recent advancements in large language models (LLMs) have demonstrated remarkable capabil-
ities in code-related tasks. To rigorously evaluate the effectiveness of our proposed knowledge-
guided prompt learning framework, we conducted a comparative study by fine-tuning Llama3-8B,
CodeLlama-7B, and DeepSeek-7B for the two subtasks separately on our PCR dataset. These models
were selected for their proven adaptability to code comprehension tasks.
   The fine-tuning process utilized a training set of 61,688 samples and a validation set of 6,855
samples, with task labels aligned to necessity prediction and tag recommendation subtasks. We
employed a learning rate of 2 × 10−5 , a batch size of 8, and trained for 10 epochs using mixed-
precision training. Both models were optimized with cross-entropy loss and early stopping based
on validation performance.

                            ACM Trans. Softw. Eng. Methodol., Vol. 0, No. 0, Article 0. Publication date: August 2025.
0:22


   The performance of the fine-tuned models was benchmarked against our proposed KP-PCR
framework. Unlike zero-shot or prompt-based evaluations, this approach allows for a fair compari-
son by leveraging domain adaptation through fine-tuning. As shown in Table 10, our experiments
reveal that in the request necessity prediction subtask, LLMs are behind KP-PCR by 22.4%-11.9%.
As shown in Table 11, LLMs lag behind KP-PCR by 34.2% and 12.6% in the tag recommendation
subtask. These disparities demonstrate that, while LLMs exhibit baseline competence, their reliance
on pure textual patterns fails to address the semantic complexity inherent in PCR tasks.
                    Table 10. Experiment Results of Request Necessity Prediction Subtask

                         Fine-Tuned LLM         Accuracy    F1 Necessary      F1 Unnecessary
                           Llama3-8B             0.654           0.583              0.698
                          CodeLlama-7B           0.692           0.617              0.709
                          DeepSeek-7B            0.742           0.763              0.721
                          Our KP-PCR             0.848           0.894              0.795


                         Table 11. Experiment Results of Tag Recommendation Subtask

                                      Precision                     Recall                      F1
         Fine-Tuned LLM
                                @3       @5     @10         @3       @5       @10       @3      @5     @10
           Llama3-8B          0.411     0.334    0.215     0.321    0.452     0.575    0.346   0.312   0.259
          CodeLlama-7B        0.546     0.391    0.207     0.487    0.601     0.762    0.518   0.463   0.352
          DeepSeek-7B         0.583     0.457    0.281     0.535    0.634     0.781    0.529   0.508   0.446
          Our KP-PCR          0.626     0.447    0.262     0.701    0.803     0.889    0.647   0.561   0.393


7      Related Work
This section introduces and analyzes related work from five perspectives: tag recommendation
task on software Q&A sites, public code review, prompt learning in software engineering, code
language model, and comparison with our preliminary study.

7.1     Tag Recommendation Task on Software Q&A Sites
Since code reviews are conducted in the form of software Q&A sites, developers need to select
appropriate tags to label their review requests during the submission stage. These tags are also
used to recommend requests to suitable reviewers. Therefore, the accuracy of these tags is directly
related to the final review quality.
   Tag recommendation techniques have become an important research focus for software Q&A
sites aiming to provide better services for code review. Numerous studies have been proposed for
software information sites [4]. In the early stages, some research works assumed that code snippets
were noise and removing them during preprocessing would improve the model’s performance such
as TagDC [22] and PROFIT [31].
   Unlike previous works, the Post2Vec model [42] preserves code snippets and learns the content
of posts, including titles, descriptions, and code snippets, seamlessly integrating them to learn a
unified representation. The authors of the PTM4Tag model [16] argue that poorly chosen tags often
introduce additional noise and redundancy, leading to problems such as tag synonyms and tag
explosion. Domain knowledge is not well studied in previous studies which may reduce the quality
of tag recommendation.

ACM Trans. Softw. Eng. Methodol., Vol. 0, No. 0, Article 0. Publication date: August 2025.
Knowledge-Guided Prompt Learning for Request Quality Assurance in Public Code Review                              0:23


7.2   Code Review
Due to the extensive review work involved, conducting code reviews has become one of the biggest
challenges facing the industry [1]. Specifically, code reviews are labor-intensive because reviewers
must manually inspect the code and provide written feedback. To alleviate the cost of review
requests, considerable attention and research has been devoted to various automation techniques.
   For instance, Thongtanunam et al. [39] proposed a code transformation service that automatically
converts source code into improved versions that have been reviewed and approved. Kudrjavets
et al. [21] investigated opportunities for potential speedups in code by analyzing the switch from
manual to automatic merging, which they found could enhance code velocity.
   Tufano et al. [41] used pre-trained transformers like T5 to automate specific code review tasks
such as revising code and generating review comments, aiming to improve code quality and reduce
the time developers spend on manual reviews. Hijazi et al. [17] proposed an approach to evaluate
the quality of modern code reviews using biometric data, such as heart rate variability and pupillary
response, to assess reviewers’ cognitive load and predict the effectiveness of bug detection, providing
feedback on code regions that may require further review. This approach requires gathering the
reviewer’s physiological signals such as Heart Rate Variability (HRV) and pupillary responses,
which are difficult to retrieve in public code reviews. Hajari et al. [14] proposed a novel code review
recommendation system, SofiaWL, which balances expertise, workload distribution, and turnover
risk to improve code review efficiency and mitigate knowledge loss in software projects.
   These methods are primarily designed around the comments and code changes of individual
reviewers, which may limit their effectiveness in the context of community-driven public code
reviews.




7.3   Pubilc Code Review
Unlike internal code reviews within teams, public code reviews are implemented in the form of
software question-and-answer sites. Such as StackExchange Code Review, a public, community-
driven platform, where developers seek feedback from a broad audience. This form, characterized
by a large user base and rapid response, also has features such as high knowledge dissemination.
However, it also introduces factors that can affect quality and efficiency, primarily related to
developers. Public code reviews on websites often involve more complex and dynamic interactions,
including discussions, negotiations, and multiple rounds of revisions.
   Since the quality and responsiveness of a public code review are typically determined by develop-
ers, this process is often carried out manually, making it difficult to achieve convenience and quality
assurance. Therefore, with the popularity of this review format, the demand for a shift from manual
to intelligent services in public code reviews has also arisen. The process of ensuring review quality
in public code reviews can be seen as a review necessity prediction and a tag recommendation task.
   Li et al. [26] proposed that by systematically considering the tasks involved in the entire review
process and modeling them, the time and resource costs of the review process can be greatly
reduced. Existing research works mostly employ fine-tuning paradigm modifications of model
architectures to ensure the model’s performance in terms of accuracy and other relevant metrics
for the tasks. This paradigmatic method can accomplish individual tasks with individual models.
Table 12 shows the statistical information on model construction for the aforementioned two
subtasks. It can be observed that although different modeling methods are used for different tasks,
most existing research is based on pre-trained language models.


                            ACM Trans. Softw. Eng. Methodol., Vol. 0, No. 0, Article 0. Publication date: August 2025.
0:24


                         Table 12. The Model Classifications Used in Existing Methods

                            Name              Pre-trained Language       CNN      DAG        Similarity
                                                                          √
                       TagDC [22]
                                                                                    √
                      PORFIT [31]
                                                         √
                   CommentBERT [32]
                                                         √
                   MetaTransformer [8]
                                                                                                 √
                   Commentfinder [18]
                                                         √
                      Post2Vec [42]
                                                                           √
                     PTM4Tag [16]
                                                         √
                     CDR4Tag [23]
                                                         √
                      UniPCR [10]


7.4    Prompt Learning in Software Engineering
Fine-tuning paradigm, where models tailored to specific tasks are trained only on target task’s input-
output example datasets, has long played a central role in many machine learning tasks [15, 25, 29].
Currently, prompt learning can be divided into two types: hard prompts and soft prompts.
   Currently, both have found rich applications in various natural language processing tasks. For
example, Han et al. [15] augmented MLM with rule-based designs to decompose challenging tasks
into several simpler sub-tasks. Similarly, Li et al. [25] introduced prefix tuning, which optimizes
small vectors of task-specific parameters, achieving similar performance to fine-tuning by learning
only 0.1% of the parameters.
   In the field of software engineering, prompt tuning has seen increasing applications. Due to the
lightweight and efficient nature pursued in software engineering tools, existing research efforts
have gradually attempted to use methods similar to prompt tuning as alternatives to fine-tuning. For
example, Lu et al. [29] proposed an LLaMA-Reverwer framework, which leverages mainstream large
language models and adopts a parameter-efficient fine-tuning method to address the computational
challenges of fine-tuning large language models. Similarly, the latest tool, POME, introduced by
Huang et al. [19], infers non-fully qualified type name syntax and usage knowledge encapsulated
in prompt-tuned code-masked language models through a fill-in-the-blank strategy.

7.5    Code Language Model
To better capture the inherent structure of code, GraphCodeBERT proposed by Guo et al. [13]
and TRACED proposed by Ding et al. [11] can be used. GraphCodeBERT demonstrated significant
improvements in adapting to downstream tasks compared to other pre-trained language models
across multiple code-related tasks. GraphCodeBERT, as such a programming language-based
pre-trained model, is constructed inspired by natural language pre-trained models, enhancing
model training by incorporating code-specific pre-training tasks on top of natural language pre-
training. Existing pre-trained models treat code snippets as token sequences, ignoring the inherent
structure in code that provides crucial semantics for enhanced code understanding. TRACED,
an execution-aware pre-training strategy for source code, to teach code models the complicated
execution logic during the pre-training, enabling the model to statically estimate the dynamic code
properties without repeatedly executing code during task-specific fine-tuning. GraphCodeBERT
utilizes data flows in the pre-training phase, representing the semantic-level structure of code,
encoding relationships between variable values. This semantic-level structure is less complex and
does not introduce unnecessary deep hierarchical structures, making the model more effective.
GraphCodeBERT is used as pre-trained model in our study.

ACM Trans. Softw. Eng. Methodol., Vol. 0, No. 0, Article 0. Publication date: August 2025.
Knowledge-Guided Prompt Learning for Request Quality Assurance in Public Code Review                                   0:25


7.6   Comparison with Our Preliminary Study
In our preliminary study [10], a unified model is proposed for the request necessity prediction
subtask and the tag recommendation subtask. The study in this paper represents a significant
expansion of that study in several respects. Firstly, we introduce a knowledge guidance base by soft
prompt to generate prefix vectors which guide the model to understand the meaning of the code
snippet. Secondly, we design the knowledge-guided prompt learning on request quality assurance
task to show that the knowledge guide can further improve the request quality of PCR. Thirdly, we
set up a prompt template design study to explore the influence of knowledge guidance. Further, we
analyze the time complexity to prove that our KP-PCR can improve task accuracy while maintaining
overall efficiency. Finally, we design a case study to investigate the performance of our prompt
templates on large-scale language models. In accordance with these additional results, the entire
paper has been thoroughly updated to reflect the new holistic study.

8 Conclusions
Through investigating and summarizing the relevant tasks of team code review and software
question-and-answer sites, and combining them with the process of public code review, this study
explores intelligent service methods for the necessity prediction task and tag recommendation
task of public code review from the perspective of developers. Addressing the issue of semantic
understanding of professional knowledge in the request content, we introduce knowledge guidance
and adopt a processing and training method that conforms to the semantic structure of code
snippets to achieve a more comprehensive learning of professional knowledge. We propose KP-PCR
to optimize the learning of professional knowledge in public code review. In public code review,
request content includes both text and code snippets. The text contains vocabulary related to
professional knowledge, while the unique structure of code snippets contains representations of
content strongly related to review quality as the main part of the content. By processing code
snippets into program dependence graphs and guiding the model to learn professional knowledge
with knowledge-guided prefix vectors, KP-PCR achieves significant improvements in both subtasks.
In the experimental results of the two subtasks, KP-PCR shows an improvement of 5.3% to 27.9% in
the necessity prediction subtask and an improvement of 2.4% to 31.4% in the tag recommendation
subtask.

Data Availability
The replication package of this study has been made available at https://github.com/WUT-IDEA/KP-
PCR.

Acknowledgments
This work has been partially supported by the National Natural Science Foundation of China (NSFC)
with Grant Nos. 62276196 and 62172311. The numerical calculations in this paper have been done
on the supercomputing system in the Supercomputing Center of Wuhan University.

References
 [1] Vipin Balachandran. 2013. Reducing Human Effort and Improving Quality in Peer Code Reviews Using Automatic Static
     Analysis and Reviewer Recommendation. In Proceedings of the 35th International Conference on Software Engineering
     (ICSE). 931–940.
 [2] Tobias Baum, Hendrik Leßmann, and Kurt Schneider. 2017. The Choice of Code Review Process: A Survey on the State
     of the Practice. In Proceedings of the 18th Product-Focused Software Process Improvement: 18th International Conference
     (PROFES). 111–127.


                                ACM Trans. Softw. Eng. Methodol., Vol. 0, No. 0, Article 0. Publication date: August 2025.
0:26


 [3] Tobias Baum, Olga Liskin, Kai Niklas, and Kurt Schneider. 2016. A Faceted Classification Scheme for Change-Based
     Industrial Code Review Processes. In Proceedings of the 16th IEEE International Conference on Software Quality, Reliability
     and Security (QRS). 74–85.
 [4] Tobias Baum and Kurt Schneider. 2016. On the Need for a New Generation of Code Review Tools. In Proceedings of the
     17th Product-Focused Software Process Improvement: 17th International Conference (PROFES). 301–308.
 [5] Tobias Baum, Kurt Schneider, and Alberto Bacchelli. 2017. On the Optimal Order of Reading Source Code Changes
     for Review. In Proceedings of the 29th IEEE International Conference on Software Maintenance and Evolution (ICSME).
     329–340.
 [6] Moritz Beller, Alberto Bacchelli, Andy Zaidman, and Elmar Juergens. 2014. Modern Code Reviews in Open-Source
     Projects: Which Problems Do They Fix?. In Proceedings of the 11th Working Conference on Mining Software Repositories
     (MSR). 202–211.
 [7] Amiangshu Bosu and Jeffrey C Carver. 2013. Impact of Peer Code Review on Peer Impression Formation: A Survey. In
     Proceedings of the 7th ACM/IEEE International Symposium on Empirical Software Engineering and Measurement (ESEM).
     133–142.
 [8] Lawrence Chen, Rui Abreu, Tobi Akomolede, Peter C Rigby, Satish Chandra, and Nachiappan Nagappan. 2022.
     Leveraging Test Plan Quality to Improve Code Review Efficacy. In Proceedings of the 30th ACM Joint European Software
     Engineering Conference and Symposium on the Foundations of Software Engineering (ESEC/FSE). 1320–1330.
 [9] Qiuyuan Chen, Dezhen Kong, Lingfeng Bao, Chenxing Sun, Xin Xia, and Shanping Li. 2022. Code Reviewer Rec-
     ommendation in Tencent: Practice, Challenge, and Direction. In Proceedings of the 44th International Conference on
     Software Engineering: Software Engineering in Practice (ICSE). 115–124.
[10] Xinyu Chen, Lin Li, Rui Zhang, and Peng Liang. 2024. On Unified Prompt Tuning for Request Quality Assurance in
     Public Code Review. In Proceedings of the 29th International Conference on Database Systems for Advanced Applications
     (DASFAA). 190–207.
[11] Yangruibo Ding, Benjamin Steenhoek, Kexin Pei, Gail Kaiser, Wei Le, and Baishakhi Ray. 2024. Traced: Execution-aware
     pre-training for source code. In Proceedings of the 46th IEEE/ACM International Conference on Software Engineering
     (ICSE). 1–12.
[12] Michael Fagan. 2011. Design and Code Inspections to Reduce Errors in Program Development. In Software Pioneers:
     Contributions to Software Engineering. 575–607.
[13] Daya Guo, Shuo Ren, Shuai Lu, Zhangyin Feng, Duyu Tang, Shujie Liu, Long Zhou, Nan Duan, Alexey Svyatkovskiy,
     Shengyu Fu, Michele Tufano, Shao Kun Deng, Colin B. Clement, Dawn Drain, Neel Sundaresan, Jian Yin, Daxin Jiang,
     and Ming Zhou. 2021. GraphCodeBERT: Pre-training Code Representations with Data Flow. In Proceedings of the 9th
     International Conference on Learning Representations (ICLR). 1–18.
[14] Fahimeh Hajari, Samaneh Malmir, Ehsan Mirsaeedi, and Peter C. Rigby. 2024. Factoring Expertise, Workload, and
     Turnover Into Code Review Recommendation. IEEE Trans. Software Eng. (2024), 884–899.
[15] Xu Han, Weilin Zhao, Ning Ding, Zhiyuan Liu, and Maosong Sun. 2022. PTR: Prompt Tuning with Rules for Text
     Classification. AI Open 3 (2022), 182–192.
[16] Junda He, Bowen Xu, Zhou Yang, DongGyun Han, Chengran Yang, and David Lo. 2022. Ptm4tag: Sharpening Tag
     Recommendation of Stack Overflow Posts with Pre-Trained Models. In Proceedings of the 30th IEEE/ACM International
     Conference on Program Comprehension (ICPC). 1–11.
[17] Haytham Hijazi, João Durães, Ricardo Couceiro, João Castelhano, Raul Barbosa, Júlio Medeiros, Miguel Castelo-Branco,
     Paulo de Carvalho, and Henrique Madeira. 2023. Quality Evaluation of Modern Code Reviews Through Intelligent
     Biometric Program Comprehension. IEEE Trans. Software Eng. (2023), 626–645.
[18] Yang Hong, Chakkrit Tantithamthavorn, Patanamon Thongtanunam, and Aldeida Aleti. 2022. Commentfinder: A
     Simpler, Faster, More Accurate Code Review Comments Recommendation. In Proceedings of the 30th ACM Joint
     European Software Engineering Conference and Symposium on the Foundations of Software Engineering (ESEC/FSE).
     507–519.
[19] Qing Huang, Zhiqiang Yuan, Zhenchang Xing, Xin Peng, Xiwei Xu, and Qinghua Lu. 2023. FQN Inference in Partial
     Code by Prompt-Tuned Language Model of Code. ACM Transactions on Software Engineering and Methodology 33, 2
     (2023), 1–32.
[20] Philip M Johnson. 1998. Reengineering Inspection. Commun. ACM 41, 2 (1998), 49–52.
[21] Gunnar Kudrjavets, Aditya Kumar, Nachiappan Nagappan, and Ayushi Rastogi. 2022. Mining Code Review Data
     to Understand Waiting Times between Acceptance and Merging: An Empirical Analysis. In Proceedings of the 19th
     International Conference on Mining Software Repositories (MSR). 579–590.
[22] Can Li, Ling Xu, Meng Yan, and Yan Lei. 2020. TagDC: A Tag Recommendation Method for Software Information Sites
     with a Combination of Deep Learning and Collaborative Filtering. Journal of Systems and Software 170 (2020), 110783.
[23] Lin Li, Peipei Wang, Xinhao Zheng, Qing Xie, Xiaohui Tao, and Juan D Velásquez. 2023. Dual-Interactive Fusion for
     Code-Mixed Deep Representation Learning in Tag Recommendation. Information Fusion 99 (2023), 101862.


ACM Trans. Softw. Eng. Methodol., Vol. 0, No. 0, Article 0. Publication date: August 2025.
Knowledge-Guided Prompt Learning for Request Quality Assurance in Public Code Review                                   0:27


[24] Ruiyin Li, Peng Liang, and Paris Avgeriou. 2023. Code Reviewer Recommendation for Architecture Violations:
     An Exploratory Study. In Proceedings of the 27th International Conference on Evaluation and Assessment in Software
     Engineering (EASE). 42–51.
[25] Xiang Lisa Li and Percy Liang. 2021. Prefix-Tuning: Optimizing Continuous Prompts for Generation. In Proceedings of
     the 59th Annual Meeting of the Association for Computational Linguistics and the 11th International Joint Conference on
     Natural Language Processing (ACL/IJCNLP). 4582–4597.
[26] Zhiyu Li, Shuai Lu, Daya Guo, Nan Duan, Shailesh Jannu, Grant Jenks, Deep Majumder, Jared Green, Alexey Svy-
     atkovskiy, Shengyu Fu, et al. 2022. Automating Code Review Activities by Large-Scale Pre-Training. In Proceedings of
     the 30th ACM Joint European Software Engineering Conference and Symposium on the Foundations of Software Engineering
     (ESEC/FSE). 1035–1047.
[27] Dan Liu, Lin Li, Xiaohui Tao, Jian Cui, and Qing Xie. 2023. Descriptive prompt paraphrasing for target-oriented
     multimodal sentiment classification. In Proceedings of the 27th Conference on Empirical Methods in Natural Language
     Processing (EMNLP): Findings. 4174–4186.
[28] Pengfei Liu, Weizhe Yuan, Jinlan Fu, Zhengbao Jiang, Hiroaki Hayashi, and Graham Neubig. 2023. Pre-Train, Prompt,
     and Predict: A Systematic Survey of Prompting Methods in Natural Language Processing. Comput. Surveys 55, 9 (2023),
     1–35.
[29] Junyi Lu, Lei Yu, Xiaojia Li, Li Yang, and Chun Zuo. 2023. LLaMA-Reviewer: Advancing Code Review Automation
     with Large Language Models through Parameter-Efficient Fine-Tuning. In Proceedings of the 34th IEEE International
     Symposium on Software Reliability Engineering (ISSRE). 647–658.
[30] Mark EJ Newman. 2005. Power laws, Pareto distributions and Zipf’s law. Contemporary Physics 46, 5 (2005), 323–351.
[31] Liqiang Nie, Yongqi Li, Fuli Feng, Xuemeng Song, Meng Wang, and Yinglong Wang. 2020. Large-Scale Question
     Tagging via Joint Question-Topic Embedding Learning. ACM Transactions on Information Systems 38, 2 (2020), 1–23.
[32] Miroslaw Ochodek, Miroslaw Staron, Wilhelm Meding, and Ola Söder. 2022. Automated Code Review Comment
     Classification to Improve Modern Code Reviews. In Proceedings of the 22th International Conference on Software Quality
     (ICSQ). 23–40.
[33] Prahar Pandya and Saurabh Tiwari. 2022. Corms: A Github and Gerrit Based Hybrid Code Reviewer Recommendation
     Approach for Modern Code Review. In Proceedings of the 30th ACM Joint European Software Engineering Conference
     and Symposium on the Foundations of Software Engineering (ESEC/FSE). 546–557.
[34] Mohammad Masudur Rahman, Chanchal K Roy, and Raula G Kula. 2017. Predicting Usefulness of Code Review
     Comments Using Textual Features and Developer Experience. In Proceedings of the 14th IEEE/ACM International
     Conference on Mining Software Repositories (MSR). 215–226.
[35] Peter C Rigby and Christian Bird. 2013. Convergent Contemporary Software Peer Review Practices. In Proceedings
     of the 9th Joint Meeting of the European Software Engineering Conference and the ACM SIGSOFT Symposium on the
     Foundations of Software Engineering (ESEC/FSE). 202–212.
[36] Peter C Rigby, Daniel M German, Laura Cowen, and Margaret-Anne Storey. 2014. Peer Review on Open-Source Software
     Projects: Parameters, Statistical Models, and Theory. ACM Transactions on Software Engineering and Methodology 23, 4
     (2014), 1–33.
[37] Caitlin Sadowski, Emma Söderberg, Luke Church, Michal Sipko, and Alberto Bacchelli. 2018. Modern Code Review: A
     Case Study at Google. In Proceedings of the 40th International Conference on Software Engineering: Software Engineering
     in Practice (ICSE-SEIP). 181–190.
[38] Qianhua Shan, David Sukhdeo, Qianying Huang, Seth Rogers, Lawrence Chen, Elise Paradis, Peter C Rigby, and
     Nachiappan Nagappan. 2022. Using Nudges to Accelerate Code Reviews at Scale. In Proceedings of the 30th ACM
     Joint European Software Engineering Conference and Symposium on the Foundations of Software Engineering (ESEC/FSE).
     472–482.
[39] Patanamon Thongtanunam, Chanathip Pornprasit, and Chakkrit Tantithamthavorn. 2022. Autotransform: Automated
     Code Transformation to Support Modern Code Review Process. In Proceedings of the 44th International Conference on
     Software Engineering (ICSE). 237–248.
[40] Maria Tsimpoukelli, Jacob L Menick, Serkan Cabi, SM Eslami, Oriol Vinyals, and Felix Hill. 2021. Multimodal few-shot
     learning with frozen language models. Advances in Neural Information Processing Systems 34 (2021), 200–212.
[41] Rosalia Tufano. 2023. Automating Code Review. In Proceedings of the 45th International Conference on Software
     Engineering (ICSE). 192–196.
[42] Bowen Xu, Thong Hoang, Abhishek Sharma, Chengran Yang, Xin Xia, and David Lo. 2021. Post2vec: Learning
     Distributed Representations of Stack Overflow Posts. IEEE Transactions on Software Engineering 48, 9 (2021), 3423–
     3441.
[43] Pingyi Zhou, Jin Liu, Xiao Liu, Zijiang Yang, and John Grundy. 2019. Is Deep Learning Better than Traditional
     Approaches in Tag Recommendation for Software Information Sites? Information and Software Technology 109 (2019),
     1–13.


                                ACM Trans. Softw. Eng. Methodol., Vol. 0, No. 0, Article 0. Publication date: August 2025.
