     Taking a Closer Look at Warnings Generated by PMD and SonarQube,
         their Rules and Compliance to Established Coding Standards
                  Lakmal Deshapriya*, Sherlock A. Licorish, Brendon J. Woodford
                                     School of Computing
                                      University of Otago,
                                    Dunedin, New Zealand
              lakmal.deshapriya@postgrad.otago.ac.nz, sherlock.licorish@otago.ac.nz,
                                brendon.woodford@otago.ac.nz


Abstract
Context: Static code analysis (SCA) tools play a vital role in software development, reducing
the cost and time required for code reviews. However, high false-positive and false-negative
rates are reported for the best tools in the community. Accordingly, studies often aim to develop
datasets for learning SCA warning patterns to reduce false results. These datasets are meant
to possess high-quality and high-volume in covering the full range of faults/rules that typically
result in false warnings and be compliant with established coding standards. However, existing
studies have not utilised such datasets or identified the breadth of rules that are prone to false
positives and their compliance to coding standards. Objectives: We analysed code from Stack
Overflow and Apache Tomcat to capture variations in code length and style in detecting false-
positive warnings from best-performing tools PMD and SonarQube, addressing this gap.
Method: In deriving false-positive warnings, outcomes from the tools were labelled using
established coding standards. Deeper analyses were then conducted to identify the rules that
are prone to false-positives, reasons for these, and agreement/gaps between SCA rules and
established standards. Results: Among our main outcomes, we observe that only a few SCA
rules generate false positives, ranging from 4.64% to 18.45% across four datasets.
Additionally, eliminating rules that contradict established standards significantly reduce the
false-positive rate. Additionally, our findings reveal discrepancies between tools and
established standards. Conclusion: Given the evidence established in this study, we
recommend further investigations into gaps between tools and established standards, including
the use of machine learning approaches to annotate larger datasets.
Keywords: Code Violation Dataset, PMD Rules, SonarQube Rules, False Positives,
Vulnerability Detection, Static Code Analyser, Software Code Quality

1 Introduction
Detecting and fixing bugs have become an essential day-to-day task of the software engineering
process, and researchers have found that software engineers use more than half of their time on
improving software (e.g., fixing bugs and refactoring source code) [1]. Static Code Analysis
(SCA) tools were introduced to identify common quality issues in source code [2], in
supporting developers’ effort aimed at delivering high quality code. However, due to the
massive amount of warnings generated by SCA tools, similar to the examples shown in Figure
1, the number of false positive warnings1 is also considerable, making it difficult to identify

*
    Corresponding author


                                                1
actual warnings2 creating a challenging task [3-5]. The SCA tools aim to identify as many code
quality violations as possible, in trying to minimise false negatives [6-8]. Consequently, SCA
tools generate many false alarms (false positives), wasting developers' time figuring out the
actionable code quality violations among the large volume of warnings generated [3-5].
Therefore, identifying actual code quality violations suggested by SCA tools is essential to the
software engineering Practitioner Community.


    public class arrayformat {                                             public class C148203{
                                                                           public interface CompositeIdEntity {
        public static void main(String[] s)
        {                                                                      long getIdA();
                int[] array = {1,2,3,4,5};
                                                                               long getIdB(); //issue CommentRequired
                int temp = array[4];
                                                                           }
                for(int i=array.length-1;i>0;i--)
                {
                   array[i]=array[i-1]; // issue - AvoidArrayLoops
                }

                array[0]= temp;

                for(int i=0;i<array.length;i++)
                {
                   System.out.println(array[i]);
                }

        }
    }
    PMD – True positive warning                                            PMD – False positive warning
    public class C270994{                                                        int[][] one =
    public static void main(String[] args) {                                    { { 1, 2, 3 }, // issue Magic numbers should not be used
       int income = 1000000; // Sample test amount of income, should              { 4, 5, 6 } };
    result in 327,683.50 in taxes.
       double tax = 0;
       if (income > 0) {
          tax = income * 0.10;
            tax += (Math.max(0, income-8350)) * 0.05; // issue Magic
    numbers should not be used

            tax += (Math.max(0, income-33950)) * 0.10;
            tax += (Math.max(0, income-82250)) * 0.03;
            tax += (Math.max(0, income-171550)) * 0.05;
            tax += (Math.max(0, income-372950)) * 0.02;
        }
        System.out.println("Tax: " + tax);
    }

    }
 SonarQube – True positive warning              SonarQube – False positive warning
Figure 1 True positive and false positive warning examples for PMD and SonarQube


Efforts are being made to identify actual warnings among the warnings generated by SCA tools
[9, 10]. However, these studies have been based on unreliable datasets [11]. Automatically
annotated datasets, artificially generated datasets, and datasets with limited rules or warning
types are regarded as unreliable or incomplete [11]. In this regard, Hegedus and Ferenc [10]
annotated a set of warnings generated using SonarQube. They annotated these warnings,

1
  In this study, a warning denotes the recommendation provided by the SCA tool through source code analysis.
“Code Quality violation” and “SCA Alarms” are also used interchangeably to refer to the same concept.
2
  In this study, an actual warning denotes a true positive warning generated by SCA tools.

                                                                       2
analysing “//NOSONAR” comments in the source code, which developers use to disregard a
SonarQube warning suggested for the same line. However, this approach can be unreliable, as
developers may apply the “//NOSONAR” comments based on personal judgements rather than
following any accepted standards or guidelines. Furthermore, the authors have not validated
the dataset, and as a result, there can be incorrect labels in the dataset. Therefore, the dataset is
not trustworthy for further analysis.
On the other hand, the Juliet vulnerability dataset is an artificially generated dataset [12]. This
synthetic dataset was created using predefined patterns, which caused a lack of diversity in the
data, even though the dataset size was large [11]. Consequently, models generated using this
dataset might produce promising results. However, their generalizability will be low, as there
are only a few unique patterns in the dataset [13]. In another work, Li et al. [14] used a Use
Before Initialization (UBI) bug dataset to experiment with ChatGPT3. The dataset had 20 items,
and these authors evaluated whether the bug was real or false positive using ChatGPT. As they
used only UBI bugs for their study, the results produced by this study cannot be generalised.
Correspondingly, according to Meldrum et al. [2], SCA rules/warning types should be classified
based on a range of source code quality aspects: 1. Reliability and conformance to
programming rules, 2. Readability, 3. Performance, and 4. Security. However, existing studies
focus only on a few aspects of source code quality to train Machine Learning (ML) models to
identify actionable warnings among the large set of warnings typically generated by SCA tools
[14-16]. In fact, relying on a few aspects of source code quality does not fully encompass the
overall quality of source codes, and the results generated by such studies cannot be generalised
to the wide breadth of source code quality indicators [2].
The limitations of automatically generated datasets, synthetic datasets, and datasets with
limited rules or warning types undermine the results produced by those studies, making
outcomes unreliable. In addition, the poor quality of the existing annotated datasets makes it
significantly challenging to build good-performing ML models to identify actionable warnings
as models trained with inaccurate datasets tend to generate inadequate outcomes [11-13].
Among the poor quality of existing annotated datasets, incorrect labels, duplicate data points,
and a lack of diversity of data points in synthetic datasets are significant [11].
Therefore, to address these limitations, we created four manually annotated sample datasets
with true positive and false positive warnings covering a wide range of source code quality
indicators that facilitate analyses to understand false positive patterns better. These datasets
were used to explore the SCA rules that are prone to false positives, reasons for the reported
false positives and agreement/gaps between SCA rules and established coding standards. Our
study makes the following contributions for academia and the software engineering Practitioner
Community.
       1. We analysed current software standards and identified their application to rules that
          generated warnings for PMD and SonarQube. This mapping provides developers
          clearer insight into the connection between these tools and industry standards, also
          outlining gaps between SCA rules and defined standards.
       2. Unlike in existing studies, defined standards were used to annotate warnings. Four
          datasets were labelled manually, providing a testbed for future studies.

3
    https://chatgpt.com/

                                                 3
    3. We identified SCA rules that are prone to false positives and examined the reasons for
       false positives.
The remainder of this study is organised as follows. Section 2 describes the background and
related studies. In Section 3, the methodology is introduced and discussed, and Section 4
provides the results. Section 5 discusses the findings of our work, while threats to the outcomes
are evaluated in Section 6. Finally, the conclusion and suggested future works are discussed in
Section 7. We provide a replication package, which consists of the datasets generated from this
study, justifications for decisions, coding rules and standards, and appendices. This will be
useful for those interested in further examining our research methodology and performing
replication studies (refer to Section 8) [17].

2 Background and Related Studies
In existing studies, several approaches were taken to create datasets, including real-world
program vulnerability datasets and artificially synthesised vulnerability datasets [13]. In this
section, the approaches to creating real-world program vulnerability datasets are reviewed,
setting the tone for a review into the strategies for creating artificially synthesised vulnerability
datasets. Then, the datasets used in existing studies for ML model building to identify false
positive warnings are reviewed, where gaps are synthesised.
2.1 Vulnerability datasets
Real-world source codes from GitHub repositories were used to create warning datasets, which
generate large amounts of datasets mostly using automatic labelling methodologies, which are
reviewed in this sub-section. Zheng et al. [18] introduced a methodology to label SCA warnings
using differential analysis of bug fixes commits. They created a dataset called D2A with more
than 1.3 million examples using the Infer SCA tool to analyse source codes from multiple
C/C++ open-source projects. To annotate the warnings in the dataset, they analysed the commit
histories (both the previous and subsequent versions of bug fixes) to determine whether the
reported warning in the previous version had been resolved in the subsequent version. If the
warning was resolved, it was assumed to be an actual (true positive) warning, otherwise, it was
deemed a false positive warning. However, according to Croft et al. [11], the quality of the
D2A dataset is poor due to its high volume of duplicate data points; consequently, models
developed with this dataset may exhibit strong validation results, as there is an increased
likelihood of overlapping data points in both the training and validation sets [11]. As a result,
the model can exhibit signs of overfitting to the training data, leading it to predict identical
labels for the validation dataset. This behaviour, where the model essentially remembers the
training examples rather than learning generalisable patterns, artificially inflates its apparent
accuracy on the validation dataset.
Cabral et al. [19] introduced the RVprio to rank runtime verification violations based on the
likelihood of a code violation being a true bug. They claimed that RVprio was the first and
most comparable tool for ranking runtime verification violations. However, the study did not
label the dataset but instead predicted the likelihood value. In another study, Aladics et al. [20]
introduced a method based on the SZZ [21] to create a dataset of vulnerability-introducing
commits as oppose to existing datasets focussed on vulnerability-fixing commits. The dataset
consisted of the vulnerability introducing commits with the details of the vulnerability as well.
This dataset was created using an automated procedure, and only a sample of the created dataset
was validated manually. Consequently, the reliability of the dataset is questionable. Pereira et
                                                 4
al. [22] created a dataset of vulnerabilities for C/C++ using five open-source projects by
analysing the commit history. The dataset contained 5,214 data points. As the study did not
specify whether the generated dataset was manually verified, the dataset is deemed to be
unreliable. Chen et al. [23] also created a similar dataset of vulnerabilities called
DIVERSEVUL, which consisted of 18,945 vulnerable functions. The dataset was used to
identify vulnerabilities in software source code employing 11 ML models.
Furthermore, Wang et al. [24] created a similar dataset of vulnerabilities called ReposVul using
1,491 projects. However, these datasets were not labelled in terms of whether the vulnerabilities
were true positives or false positives. Instead, these datasets were labelled automatically,
primarily by analysing commit histories. According to Croft et al. [11], such datasets are of low
quality and contain incorrect label information. Consequently, artificially synthesised datasets
were introduced to address this issue. For instance, the SAMATE project has developed the
Juliet vulnerability dataset [12]. The Juliet dataset is used in multiple studies to evaluate ML
models; however, the advantages of using artificially synthesised vulnerability datasets come
with a cost [11]. Despite the large dataset size, the synthetic dataset was created using
predefined patterns, resulting in a lack of diversity in the data [11]. Consequently, ML models
generated from this dataset may yield promising results. However, their generalisability is
likely to be low, as there are only a limited number of unique patterns in the dataset [13].
2.2 Datasets used in ML model building
This sub-section discusses warning datasets used in ML model-building tasks from recent
studies. Tan and Tian [15] trained various ML models, including Bidirectional Gated Recurrent
Unit Neural Network (BGRU), Convolutional Neural Networks (CNN), and Multilayer
Perceptron (MLP), to classify bugs using a real bug database called Defects4J [25].
Furthermore, Yang et al. [26] used three datasets: a bug dataset created by Yang et al. [26],
Defects4J [25], and a dataset created by Liu et al. [27], which is an annotated warning dataset
derived from commit history analysis. Furthermore, Yerramreddy et al. [28] used four datasets
(three Java and one C), created from the analysis results of the JBMC and CBMC SCA tools.
The four datasets comprised one real-world dataset for Java and three synthetic datasets. The
real-world dataset is manually labelled. However, all the datasets utilised by Yerramreddy et
al. [28] merely addressed certain aspects of source code quality, such as vulnerabilities and
bugs.
Similarly, Li et al. [14] used a UBI bug dataset, which consists of 20 data items, to experiment
with ChatGPT in order to assess whether the bugs were real or false positives. Nguyen et al.
[16] used the Juliet test suite (for C/C++) to train ML models. The dataset is a collection of test
cases organised under 118 different CWEs4. Nagaraj et al. [29] created a security bug dataset
by analysing 2,740 Java files using the FindSecBugs SCA tool. However, the dataset did not
provide details on whether the bug was real or synthesised. Kharkar et al. [30] created a data
set of 539 null dereference warnings. The dataset was generated by analysing seven Java
repositories using the Infer SCA tool and was labelled by experienced software developers.
Furthermore, Hegedus and Ferenc [10] created a dataset analysing 9,958 different open-source
Java projects hosted on GitHub. The dataset consisted of 224,484 sample data points, which
include true positive (actionable) and false positive (explicitly discarded) warnings. To compile


4
    https://samate.nist.gov/SARD/test-suites/112

                                                   5
the dataset, these authors employed SonarQube to analyse the projects and pinpoint the code
violations warnings. However, the study depends on “//NOSONAR” comments within the
source code, where developers utilise the comment to disregard a sonar warning suggested for
the same line. The approach may be unreliable, as it does not consider whether the developer
has ignored the warning in accordance with any accepted standard or guideline. Furthermore,
the dataset was neither manually verified by the authors nor used in any other existing studies.
Consequently, the dataset is deemed untested for further analysis. Vu and Vo [31] used a dataset
for their study that was also used by Ngo et al. [32] consisting of 6,620 warnings from 10
popular open-source C/C++ programs. The dataset comprised two categories of vulnerability
types: Buffer Overflow and Null Pointer Dereference. Additionally, Tanwar et al. [9] created a
dataset of 10 CWE categories and labelled them using commit history analysis. Koc et al. [33]
used two datasets to train their models. The first is the OWASP benchmark, and the second is
a dataset of warnings generated by the FindSecBugs SCA tool for 14 real-world programs. The
first dataset is synthetic, while the second consists of bugs labelled manually. Furthermore, Lee
et al. [34] employed 9,871 alarms, which were either resolved or labelled as false positives at
Samsung Electronics. The dataset included warnings from in-house static analysis checkers,
comprising six types such as Resource Handle Leak, Double Free, and Null Pointer
Dereference After Null.
Evaluating the outcomes above, the quality of the datasets utilised to build ML models for
identifying false positive SCA warnings in previous studies was inadequate. Several studies
employed synthetic datasets with limited diversity [16, 33], while others utilised automatically
generated datasets that lack manual validation [10, 26]. Moreover, some datasets used to train
ML models were not diverse; they involved only a limited range of warnings and did not cover
a wide range of source code quality dimensions [2]. As a result, the reliability of the findings
produced by existing studies remains questionable. Therefore, it is emphasised that
constructing ML models using manually annotated datasets that encompass various aspects of
source code quality has the potential to yield generalised results, which is the focus of this
study.
2.3 SCA tools’ rules, the applicable standards for these rules and the gaps between
    SCA tools’ rules and established standards
This subsection explored the efforts made to identify the rules of SCA tools, the standards
applicable to these rules, and the gaps between the rules of SCA tools and established standards.
Fatima et al. [35] conducted a comparative study on a few SCA tools that are used to analyse
C/C++ source code. They evaluated those SCA tools based on twenty-eight checks to rank tools
and identify the best SCA tools. Although they do not identify all the SCA tool’s rules, they
have identified that twenty-eight checks are available in the tool as rules. However, they only
evaluated some SCA tools for C/C++ source code and did not check the rules against any source
code quality standards. Additionally, no false positive checks were carried out in this study.
Ramler et al. [36] identified 42 PMD rules which is related to Java Junit test cases. However,
they did not identify any possible source code quality standard or false positives generated by
PMD rules. Ashfaq et al. [37] conducted a comparative analysis on Java SCA tools, including
PMD. They identified supported rule types (e.g., Style, General, Concurrency, etc.) from each
SCA tool. However, they did not identify specific rules that SCA tools supported, nor did they
establish any potential source code quality standards relevant to the SCA tools’ rules.


                                               6
Novak and Krajnc [38] created a taxonomy of SCA tools using several attributes of SCA tools,
including rule types that the SCA tools supported. However, they did not study the individual
SCA rule level and did not consider whether these rules are aligned with source code quality
standards. Lenarduzzi et al. [39] identified the rule types (e.g. Syntax, Bugs, etc) each SCA
tool (including PMD and SonarQube) generated warnings for, the number of rules generated
warnings, and the number of warnings generated. They identified the top ten generated
warnings from SCA rules.
Charoenwet et al. [40] studied eight CWE5 vulnerabilities using several SCA tools, including
CodeChecker, Codeql, and Flawfinder. However, they evaluated only a few types of
vulnerabilities. A similar study was conducted by Ozturk et al. [41] using the top 10 OWASP6
vulnerabilities. Alqaradaghi and Kozsik [42] evaluated several Java SCA tools against 70
CWEs, validating these CWEs using OWASP. However, they do not conduct a comprehensive
analysis of all the SCA rules available in the SCA tools and their applicable standards.
Software quality models, such as ISO/IEC 9126 and ISO/IEC 25010, are defined to evaluate
the quality of software [43, 44]. Some efforts were taken to map the quality characteristics
mentioned in these quality models with the SCA rules to classify these rules. Forouzani et al.
[44] mapped PMD rules with the relevant quality characteristics according to the definition of
quality characteristics from ISO/IEC 25010. Some of the quality characteristics mentioned in
the software quality models are Performance, Reliability, Security and Maintainability, and
these characteristics are further divided into subcategories such as Availability, Fault Tolerance
and Compliance [43, 44]. Bánsághi et al. [43] conducted a similar work for PMD and FxCop
SCA tools’ rules with both ISO/IEC 9126 and ISO/IEC 25010. However, these works did not
assess the validity of SCA tools’ rules in terms of quality, and they categorised rules based on
the quality characteristics defined in the standard.
According to the existing studies discussed in this sub-section, several efforts have been made
to identify rules available in SCA tools. However, these efforts were not comprehensive as they
did not identify all the rules available in the SCA tools and the established standards applicable
to those rules. Although several authors have utilised software quality models to categorise the
rules available in SCA tools, none of the studies identify all the rules in these tools, applicable
standards for the rules, or gaps between these rules and established standards.
2.4 Summary
Existing studies have developed ML models using datasets created through various
methodologies. Some datasets were collected and annotated manually [33, 43], while others
were gathered and annotated using commit history from GitHub [10, 18, 20]. Certain datasets
were also generated using real-world code repositories [10, 18, 20]. However, some datasets
were developed using synthetic code databases, such as OWASP benchmarks and Juliet test
suites, offering distinct advantages and disadvantages compared to other types of datasets [12].
Furthermore, datasets discussed in this section are summarised with all the available details in
Table 1.


5
  These CWEs are maintained by Mitra5, and we selected this as a source code quality standard in the section
3.4.
6
  OWASP was also identified as a source code quality standard in section 3.4.



                                                       7
The main benefit of automated labelling systems is possessing a substantial quantity of data
[13]. However, the datasets generated through automatic methods, such as analysing GitHub
commit history, experienced quality issues, whereas those created using synthetic code datasets
lacked data diversity [11, 13]. Additionally, recent studies have shown that ML models were
constructed using only a limited number of code quality violation types; primarily, only
warnings related to bugs were utilised in the creation of these models [14, 15]. However,
several dimensions of source code quality recommended by previous work [2] were not
addressed in the existing studies, leading to a lack of generalisability to the many aspects of
code quality, which needs investigation.
Moreover, several studies were conducted to identify rules available in SCA tools [35, 36].
However, these studies did not comprehensively study on all the rules available in SCA tools.
Furthermore, only a few studies tried to map the available rules with CWE and OWASP coding
standards [40-42]. Several studies mapped quality characteristics of software quality models,
such as ISO/IEC 9126 and ISO/IEC 25010, with rules of SCA tools [43, 44]. However, the
purpose of these models is to categorise the available rules according to the quality
characteristics.
To address the limitations, we manually created four vulnerability datasets, that cover various
aspects of source code quality, as explained in Section 3.4. We annotated samples from each
vulnerability dataset according to established standards identified in Section 3.4 to determine
whether those warnings were true positives or false positives. These four vulnerability datasets
were created using two publicly available code datasets and two popular SCA tools, as outlined
in the Section 3.6.
Table 1 Summary of the datasets used in existing studies
    Author                Dataset name           Labelling       Type of the Dataset            Number        of     Programming
                                                 method                                         examples             Language
    Zheng et al. [18]     D2A                    Automatically   Real-world          program    Over 1.3 million     C/C++
                                                                 vulnerability datasets         examples
    Aladics et al.                               Automatically   Real-world          program    564                  Java
    [20]                                                         vulnerability datasets
    Pereira et al. [22]                          Automatically   Real-world          program    5,214                C/C++
                                                                 vulnerability datasets
    Chen et al. [23]      DIVERSEVUL             Automatically   Real-world          program    18,945               C/C++
                                                                 vulnerability datasets
    Wang et al. [24]      ReposVul               Automatically   Real-world          program    6,134                C/C++,       Java,
                                                                 vulnerability datasets                              Python
    Boland et al. [12]    Juliet vulnerability   Manually        Artificially     synthesised   over 81,000          C/C++ and Java
                          dataset                                vulnerability datasets
    Just et al. [25]      Defects4J              Automatically   Real-world          program    854                  Java
                                                                 vulnerability datasets
    Yang et al. [26]                             Manually        Real-world          program    74,859               Java
                                                                 vulnerability datasets
    Liu et al. [27],                             Automatically   Real-world          program    16,918,530           Java
                                                                 vulnerability datasets
    Kharkar et al.                               Manually        real-world          program    539                  Java
    [30]                                                         vulnerability datasets
    Li et al. [14]                               Manually        real-world          program    20
                                                                 vulnerability datasets
    Nagaraj et al. [29                                                                                               Java
    Hegedus        and                           Manually        real-world          program    224,484              Java
    Ferenc [10]                                                  vulnerability datasets
               7
    owasp.org             OWASP                  Manually        artificially     synthesised   21,041 in     v1.1   Java and Python
                                                                 vulnerability datasets         (Java)
                                                                                                2,740 in      v1.2
                                                                                                (Java)


7
    https://github.com/OWASP-Benchmark/BenchmarkJava

                                                                    8
                                                                                  1,243 (Python)
    Lee et al. [34]                 Automatically   Real-world          program   9,871            C/C++
                                                    vulnerability datasets




3 Methodology
This section outlines the research questions of our study, and the methodology employed to
create the datasets and analyse the data. In reviewing existing studies in Section 2, it is observed
that there were no studies that examined static analysis tools (including PMD and SonarQube)
in terms of their rules, the applicable standards for these rules, false positive warnings
generated by these tools and the gaps between SCA tools’ rules and established standards.
Furthermore, existing studies employed datasets of low quality and limited diversity, rendering
the outputs generated by these studies unreliable and ungeneralizable. Thus, four research
questions were formulated to address these gaps, and four datasets were created to address
those research questions, as detailed below.
3.1 Research questions
SCA tools check common software source code defects, producing many warnings depending
on the source code size. Developers use a large amount of their development effort to address
these warnings, and the complexity of that task increases as SCA tools also produce false
alarms [1]. SCA tools check source code using defined rules that evolve over time8,9.
Developers of SCA tools create, modify, or remove existing rules based on current
requirements by continuously evaluating changes in the software engineering industry10. In this
regard, SCA tools often introduce new rules to detect source code defects while retiring some
existing rules when they are no longer relevant. However, limited previous studies have
investigated the rules that are prone to false positives in SCA tools and established standards
relevant to them. Consequently, our first Research Question (RQ) addresses this opportunity:

RQ1: What are the rules and standards of SCA tools that generate warnings for specific
source code datasets?

RQ1 was created to identify the current rules available that generated warnings for our source
code datasets, in particular SCA tools (PMD and SonarQube), as well as the related
established standards. In addition, this research question allows us to evaluate the applicability
of established standards to SCA rules and the categories of rules which report warnings for
our datasets.

Existing studies have utilised several approaches to develop SCA warning datasets, including
automatic annotation methods [10, 18] and the use of synthetic code datasets like OWASP
benchmarks and Juliet test suites [12]. However, these methodologies generate low-quality
datasets, and it is recommended that researcher create SCA warning datasets by manually
annotating them [11]. Therefore, we have created four datasets through manual annotation
following established standards. We observed that only a few SCA rules produced false positive



8
  https://docs.sonarsource.com/sonarqube/latest/user-guide/rules/overview/
9
  https://pmd.github.io/pmd/
10
   https://docs.sonarsource.com/sonarqube/latest/user-guide/rules/overview/

                                                       9
warnings, and it is crucial to identify these rules, as none of the existing studies have focused
on this gap. Thus, the second research question is dedicated to this opportunity:

RQ2: Which SCA rules are prone to false positives?

RQ2 was created to identify the rules that generate a significant amount of false positive
violations. Identifying those rules makes fixing them possible and reduces the overall false
positive rate of the SCA tool, thereby reducing practitioners’ workload to sift through false
positives.

As with the identification of false positives, recognizing the causes of false positive warnings
generated by SCA rules is essential. However, limited current studies investigate the reasons
behind false warnings identified by SCA tools. Therefore, the third research question addresses
this opportunity:

RQ3: What are the reasons for reported false positives by SCA tools?

RQ3 was developed to identify the reasons for generating false positives for each rule in SCA
tools. Understanding the causes of false positive warnings simplifies the process of recognising
these warnings in an unlabelled warning dataset. It also provides insights for SCA Tool
Developers to enhance the rules that generate a substantial number of false positive warnings,
reducing practitioners’ overhead.

Previous studies have not used established standard/s to annotate SCA warnings. Consequently,
no potential gaps have been assessed between the rules of SCA tools and established standards.
This gap is addressed by our fourth research question:

RQ4: Are there any gaps in code violation classification between selected SCA tools and
established standards?

RQ4 was created to understand discrepancies between the description of SCA rules and
established standards. There can be mismatches and gaps between SCA rules and established
coding standards. The gaps may arise mainly because SCA tools have defined their rules based
on the experience of the software engineering community and their preference for coding
styles11. In contrast, the established coding standards are factually defined, with firm evidence
from standard organisations [45, 46]. Additionally, SCA tools may violate their own standards
if they wrongly identify code violations – we investigate this issue.
3.2 SCA tool selection
A systematic mapping study incorporating grey literature was conducted using existing
research published between 2013 and 2025 on SCA tools, and 52 blog posts that were returned
from Google search results. The study aimed to identify popular SCA tools within the software
engineering community and academia. Figure 2 is extracted from the systematic mapping
study, where it is shown that the most popular SCA tools used to analyse Java source codes are
SonarQube and PMD in academia and industry. Accordingly, for our analysis, we used PMD

11
     https://community.sonarsource.com/c/clean-code/43

                                                         10
version 6.55.0 and SonarQube version 10.2.1 to analyse Stack Overflow and Apache Tomcat
datasets, which are described in Section 3.3, using these SCA tools to generate warning
suggestions.




   a. Popularity of SCA tools in academia        b. Popularity of SCA tools in blogs
Figure 2 Popularity of SCA tools in academia and industry (blog study)

3.3 Source code selection
PMD and SonarQube SCA tools were selected for our study, and two publicly available source
code datasets were chosen for analysis with the selected SCA tools. Having two separate code
datasets will enable us to ascertain the generalisability of our outcomes. The first dataset is the
Stack Overflow dataset collected by Meldrum et al. [2], and the second dataset is the Apache
Tomcat source code downloaded from GitHub on 8th December 2023, referred to as the Apache
Tomcat dataset. These two code datasets were used in our study as they were widely used in
academia to evaluate software source codes, and these datasets contain two unique sets of Java
codes [47-55], providing evidence for variable code lengths and potential quality. Stack
overflow dataset contains source code snippets while Apache Tomcat contains full-length
source code.
The first dataset comprises 8,010 Java files collected from code snippets found in posts on the
Stack Overflow website12 which is a question-and-answer website for software engineering,
utilised by developers of varying experience levels. In this source code dataset, the number of
lines in a file ranges from 1 to 355. Furthermore, five Java files contained only class definitions
with no code inside them. Irrespective, those Java files were also utilised for the analysis.
The code datasets should be compiled to scan datasets with SonarQube. However, there were
some compilation issues with the Stack Overflow code dataset. In this code dataset, there were
some files with conflicting file names. For example, there were two “Employee” classes in two
files. In such scenarios, the conflicting class name was modified by adding a number after the
class name (“Employee1”). Additionally, when the class was modified with the “public”
modifier, but the file name did not match the class name, the “public” modifier was removed.
We did not modify the file name as we needed to keep references to the original code dataset.
Moreover, we added some library import statements where necessary.
The second dataset is the Apache Tomcat source code downloaded from GitHub on the 8th
December 202313. The code dataset comprises 2,749 Java files, all of which are compilable.


12
     https://stackoverflow.com/
13
     https://github.com/apache/tomcat

                                                11
The number of lines in each file ranges from 20 to 6,285, including comment lines.
Furthermore, only the Java files were utilised for our study.
It is reported that the code snippets found in Stack Overflow are of low quality [2]. In contrast,
the Apache Tomcat dataset is developed by a software engineering community that reviews the
source code regularly14. Therefore, it should be of higher quality. Consequently, we have
selected two datasets at different maturity levels.
The objective of this study is to create warning datasets generated by PMD and SonarQube.
However, the actual datasets used is not crucial, as our primary aim is to capture variations in
code length and style in detecting false-positive warnings from best-performing tools to explore
rules of best tools and their compliance to established coding standards. Accordingly, we used
source code datasets that are widely used in academia, which enriches existing knowledge in
the space [47-55].
3.4 Identify standards for individual rules
Existing studies have used several approaches to annotate SCA warnings [13]. According to
Lin et al. [13], existing studies have used automatic labelling frameworks and manual labelling
methodology to create warning datasets, where automatic labelling was seen to have a higher
probability of incorrect labelling than manual labelling. Thus, manual labelling was done by
the researchers, albeit they did not use any standards/guidelines [28, 33]. Therefore, to annotate
the datasets in the current study, the standards listed in Table 2 were used. Using established
standards ensures that the labels are consistent and adhere to existing standards.
In identifying relevant standards, we referred to the official documentation for each rule in
PMD and SonarQube to determine whether the authors used any standards to define their rules,
where some standards were identified from the documentation. OWASP was added to the list
because it was used in existing studies [56, 57], and the Java official documentation is also
used as a standard. Finally, there were some papers (ID: 10 and 11 in Table 2) mentioned in
some PMD rules as a further reference. Since those papers were acceptable studies, those
standards were also selected.
These standards were used to validate the SCA tool’s rules, as these standards have been widely
adopted by the software development industry and are considered reliable [56-58]. However,
SonarQube and PMD introduce new rules based on their experience, and they also modify rules
based on community feedback15,16. These rules are typically not yet mature enough to be
presented as standards, and in fact some rules contradict others17. For example, the
“AtLeastOneConstructor” rule in PMD says that “Each non-static class should declare at least
one constructor. Classes with solely static members are ignored, refer to UseUtilityClassRule
to detect those.” However, this rule contradicts the rule “UnnecessaryConstructor” in PMD.
Therefore, rules in SonarQube and PMD cannot be considered standards. Consequently, we
evaluate generated warnings for our datasets against more established standards.
Table 2 Established Java Coding Standards
 ID   Established Standards                             Reason for selecting the standard


14
   https://github.com/apache/tomcat
15
   https://community.sonarsource.com/
16
   https://github.com/pmd/pmd/pulls
17
   https://pmd.github.io/pmd/pmd_rules_java.html

                                                   12
 01      https://wiki.sei.cmu.edu                                            Wiki page maintained by Carnegie Mellon University and
                                                                             used as a standard for SonarQube
 02      Book: Clean Code                                                    Used as a standard for SonarQube
 03      Book: Effective Java by Joshua Bloch                                Used as a standard for SonarQube
 04      Book: Mastering Regular Expressions by Jeffrey Friedl               Used as a standard for SonarQube

 05      Book: Refactoring: Improving the Design of Existing Code by         Used as a standard for SonarQube
         Martin Fowler, Kent Beck, John Brant, William Opdyke, and Don
         Roberts.
 06      Google Java Coding Style Guide                                      Used as a standard for SonarQube and A popular and well-
                                                                             accepted standard [59, 60]
 07      https://cwe.mitre.org/data/definitions/                             Used as a standard for SonarQube and A popular and well-
                                                                             accepted standard [61, 62]
 08      Java Doc                                                            Java official user guide
 09      Book: Object-Oriented Metrics in Practice: Using Software Metrics   Used as a reference for PMD
         to Characterize, Evaluate, and Improve the Design of Object-
         Oriented Systems by Michele Lanza and Radu Marinescu.
 10      Paper: Linguistic Antipatterns - What They Are and How              [63]
         Developers Perceive Them
 11      Principle of Least Astonishment                                     [64]
 12      SOLID principles                                                    Used as a standard for SonarQube
 13      Transitive property of equality                                     Used as a standard for SonarQube
 14      https://owasp.org                                                   A popular and well-accepted standard [56, 57]



According to the standards shown in Table 2, there were rules that can be classified as follows:
       1. SCA rules, which align with the standards.
       2. SCA rules, which are against the standards.
       3. SCA rules, which neither align with nor against the standards.
The approach used to identify false positive warnings is documented in Table 3. As mentioned
in Table 3, if the SCA rule was aligned with the existing standards, SCA warnings were checked
manually according to the standards, where warnings were determined as true positive or false
positive. However, when the SCA rules were against the existing standards, alarms reported
under those rules were removed, and the alarms reported under those rules were considered
false positives. Those rules are mentioned in Table 4. Additionally, some SCA rules did not
align with or contradict the standards. SCA warnings reported under those rules were checked
manually according to the rules’ description and the default parameters mentioned on the
official website of the SCA tools. Additionally, identifying or defining standards for those rules
is an open research area, as those rules are created based on the practices followed by the
software engineering Practitioner Community.
Table 3 Approaches used to determine true positives or false positives
 SCA rule type                                             Approach
 SCA rules, which are aligned with the standards.          Code violations were checked manually, according to the standards.
 SCA rules, which are against the standards.               Removed the code violations as they are against the standards.
 SCA rules, which are neither aligned with nor against     According to the SCA tool’s documentation and default parameters on the
 the standards.                                            official website, code violations were checked manually.



Additionally, Deprecated ules, Rule Templates, and Beta rules were removed from the
SonarQube rules list, as the SonarQube development community does not recommend using
them18,19. Those rules are reported in Table 4. When analysing the Java code with PMD, the



18
     https://community.sonarsource.com/t/how-to-fix-deprecated-rules/28871
19
     https://docs.sonarsource.com/sonarqube/latest/user-guide/rules/overview/

                                                                   13
"rulesets/internal/all-java.xml" ruleset was used, which contains all non-deprecated rules.
Therefore, the report had no warning suggestions related to deprecated rules.
Table 4 Reason for rule removal
 SCA tool    Rule with description                                                         Reason for removal from further
                                                                                           analysis
 PMD         AtLeastOneConstructor - Each non-static class should declare at least one     According      to   the official      Java
             constructor. Classes with solely static members are ignored; refer to         Development Kit (JDK) documentation, it
             UseUtilityClassRule to detect those.                                          is not recommended to create a default
                                                                                           constructor as the JDK generates it.
             MissingSerialVersionUID - Serializable classes should provide a               According to the official documentation of
             serialVersionUID field. The serialVersionUID field is also needed for         the Java Development Kit (JDK),
             abstract base classes. Each class in the inheritance chain needs its own      manually defining the serial version ID is
             serialVersionUID field. See also the rule – “Should an abstract class have    not recommended, as the JDK generates it
             a serialVersionUID”.                                                          automatically.
 SonarQube   An open curly brace should be located at the beginning of a line.             The rule does not follow the Google Java
                                                                                           Coding Style Guide.
             Close curly brace and the following "else", "catch", and "finally" keywords   The rule does not follow the Google Java
             should be on two different lines.                                             Coding Style Guide.
             Custom resources should be closed.                                            Rule Template
             Track comments matching a regular expression.                                 Rule Template
             Track uses of disallowed classes.                                             Rule Template
             Track uses of disallowed constructors.                                        Rule Template
             Track uses of disallowed methods.                                             Rule Template
             @EnableAutoConfiguration should be fine-tuned.                                Deprecated
             Abstract classes without fields should be converted to interfaces.            Deprecated
             Classes should not be loaded dynamically.                                     Deprecated
             finalize should not set fields to "null".                                     Deprecated
             Primitives should not be boxed just for "String" conversion.                  Deprecated
             super.finalize() should be called at the end of "Object.finalize()"           Deprecated
             implementations.
             XML parsers should not load external schemas.                                 Deprecated
             Classes should not depend on an excessive number of classes (aka Monster      Beta
             Class).
             Methods should not perform too many tasks (aka Brain method).                 Beta
             The Singleton design pattern should be used with care.                        Beta



3.5 Statistical analysis for estimating population false positive percentage
Warnings were manually labelled and the false-positive (FP) percentage for each dataset was
calculated, multiplying the number of false positives by 100 and dividing the result by the
sample size. To estimate population-level uncertainty from the observed samples, 95%
Ionfidence Intervals (CIs) for each FP percentage value were computed using the Wilson score
interval method, which provides more accurate bounds for binomial proportions than the
normal approximation [65]. The CI for a proportion p with sample size n was calculated as:

                                              𝑧2      𝑝(1 − 𝑝)    𝑧2
                                          𝑝 + 2𝑛 ± 𝑧√          +
                                                         𝑝       4𝑛2
                                     𝐶𝐼 =
                                                        𝑧2
                                                   1+ 𝑛

We used 1.96 for z, the typical value recommended [65], and the corresponding 95%
confidence level was adopted to sample datasets. These intervals quantify the uncertainty of
the sample estimates and allow extrapolation to the population of warnings [65]. This statistical
analysis was performed in Microsoft Excel using the equation mentioned above. The resulting
confidence intervals are reported in Section 3.6.
3.6 Sampling and building the dataset
It is not practical to manually check the entire dataset for false positives. Therefore, each dataset
was sampled randomly with 95% confidence level and 5% error rate. The sample size was

                                                               14
calculated statistically using Cochran’s formula and divided into each rule in proportion to the
number of code violations per each rule [66-68]. When the calculated sample size for a given
rule resulted in a fractional value, the number was rounded up to the nearest whole number to
ensure each rule was represented in the sample. Within each rule category, random selection
was implemented in Microsoft Excel by generating random numbers for each entry using the
RAND() function, sorting the data based on these values, and selecting the top entries
corresponding to the allocated sample size for each rule. The number of samples per rule for
all datasets is provided in our replication package20 [17].
The datasets were analysed using PMD version 6.55.0 and SonarQube version 10.2.1,
downloaded in December 2023. These were the latest stable versions at the time of the
investigation and were used to analyse the source code discussed in Section 3.3. Although
newer versions of these tools have been developed, the rules studied in this paper remain
relevant at the time of manuscript submission. Two SCA tools were used to analyse two source
code datasets, producing four SCA warning datasets. A summary of the procedure followed to
create datasets is shown in Figure 3.




Figure 3 Procedure of the dataset building


For the Stack Overflow dataset, 85,584 code violations were found with PMD using the
"rulesets/internal/all-java.xml" ruleset, which contained all non-deprecated rules. Those code
violations were found for 190 rules under seven rule sets - Code Style, Documentation, Design,
Best Practices, Performance, Error Prone, and Multithreading. As discussed in Section 3.4, two
of those rules were removed because they were against established standards. After the code
violations under these rules were removed, there were 80,788 total code violations. However,


20
   Replication package >> Appendices >> Appendix G_Sample sizes for PMD.docx and Appendix H_Sample
sizes for SonarQube.docx

                                                 15
manually annotating the entire dataset is not practical. The practical solution is to randomly
create a sample with a 95% confidence level and a 5% error margin, as described above, which
was done resulting in 531 samples being randomly selected.
Table 5 Wilson score interval for false positive percentages for samples
 Dataset            FP Percentage            Sample size        Confident Interval
 1                  18.45                    531                [15.39, 21.98]
 2                  13.43                    536                [10.8, 16.58]
 3                  4.64                     646                [3.27, 6.55]
 4                  6.97                     631                [5.24, 9.23]




A given SCA warning was labelled as a true positive if the warning description follows the
defined standards. Additionally, in case there are no defined standards for the related SCA rule,
then the SCA rule description is used instead of defined standards to label SCA warnings as
true positives. Otherwise, SCA warnings were labelled as false positives. These samples were
labelled manually with “1” for false positives and “0” for true positives using the approaches
mentioned in Table 3. Of the total selected for manual analysis, 98 were false positives.
Therefore, the false positive rate in the sample dataset is 18.45%, and there should be a similar
false positive rate in the population dataset with a 95% confidence level. The Wilson score
intervals for Dataset 1 are calculated as described in Section 3.5 and the results are shown in
Table 5. Here it is shown that the false positive percentage in the population Dataset 1 should
be between 15.39% and 21.98%.
Following the same procedure, the same dataset was analysed using SonarQube for all rules
except Deprecated rules, Beta rules and Rule Templates, and the total number of violations was
108,944. Those violations were found under 312 rules. However, two rules, which were against
the established standards, were removed later, as discussed in Section 3.4. Therefore, the total
number of code violations was 83,890. Like Dataset 1, a sample with 646 violations was
randomly selected with a 95% confidence level and a 5% error margin. The sample dataset was
manually checked for false positives. Of that, 30 samples were false positives, and the false
positive rate was 4.64%. Thus, there should be a similar false positive rate in the population
dataset with a 95% confidence level. Moreover, according to Table 5, the false positive
percentage in the population Dataset 2 should be between 10.8% and 16.58%.
Similarly, the Apache Tomcat dataset was analysed using PMD and SonarQube with the same
set of rules. The total number of code violations was 177,506 and 221,954, respectively, which
fell under 199 and 283 rules in PMD and SonarQube. Two rules which are against the
established standards for each SCA tool were removed in a similar manner to the previous
dataset, and there were a total number of code violations of 176,293 and 128,524, respectively.
Much like the previous datasets, samples were selected randomly, resulting in 536 and 631 for
PMD and SonarQube, respectively. After manually checking the code violations, there were 72
false positives (13.43%) for PMD and 44 false positives (6.97%) for SonarQube for the Apache
Tomcat dataset. Therefore, the population datasets of the sample datasets should have the same
false positive rate with a 95% confidence level and 5% error rate. Furthermore, according to
Table 5, the false-positive percentage in population Dataset 3 should be between 3.27% and
6.55% and in population Dataset 4, it should be between 5.24% and 9.23%. A simple interface
was developed to support the manual annotation process. It shows all the relevant information

                                               16
on one page. Then we provided a suitable label in the software, and the label was recorded with
the required details, such as the issue number and warning message. Using this software
reduced mistakes that can occur during manual annotations.
A summary of the four datasets is presented in Table 6 and Table 7. This summary identifies
the sample datasets: Dataset 1 consists of warnings produced by PMD after analysing the Stack
Overflow dataset, while Dataset 2 comprises warnings generated by PMD for Apache Tomcat.
Meanwhile, Dataset 3 and Dataset 4 represent the warnings created by SonarQube for the Stack
Overflow and Apache Tomcat datasets, respectively. These sample datasets were deeply
analysed to generate results discussed in the Section 4 and were used to answer research
questions outlined in the Section 3.1. In addition, Table 8 provides a comprehensive overview
of the variables used to answer each research question in this study.
Table 6 Summary of datasets
 Dataset Name                 SCA tool                 Dataset                         Total alarm count       # of rules found
 Dataset 1                    PMD                      Stack Overflow dataset          85,584                  190
 Dataset 2                    PMD                      Apache Tomcat                   177,506                 199
 Dataset 3                    SonarQube                Stack Overflow dataset          108,944                 312
 Dataset 4                    SonarQube                Apache Tomcat                   221,954                 283



Table 7 Summary of sample datasets
 Dataset Name                   # of rules removed                # of alarms    Sample size    Number of false     False positive
                                (except Beta, Deprecated,         after   rule                  positives in the    percentage
                                and Rule Template rules)          removal                       sample
 Dataset 1                      2                                 80,788         531            98                  18.45
 Dataset 2                      2                                 176,293        536            72                  13.43
 Dataset 3                      2                                 83,890         646            30                  4.64
 Dataset 4                      2                                 128,524        631            44                  6.97



Table 8 Measures for answering research questions
 Metric                                                                                          Relevant research question
 SCA tool                                                                                        RQ1, RQ2, RQ3, RQ4
 SCA rule                                                                                        RQ1, RQ2, RQ3, RQ4
 Number of usable rules                                                                          RQ1
 Number of rules which generated code violations                                                 RQ1, RQ2
 Rule standards                                                                                  RQ1, RQ2, RQ4
 Are established standards aligned with or against established standards                         RQ1, RQ2
 Number of rules per standard                                                                    RQ1
 Rule category                                                                                   RQ1
 Number of rules per rule category                                                               RQ1
 Sample size                                                                                     RQ2
 Number of false positives in the sample                                                         RQ2, RQ3
 Rules which generated false positives                                                           RQ2, RQ3
 Reason for generating the false positive (for each data point)                                  RQ3
 Gaps , if any, with the SCA rule and established standard                                       RQ4




                                                                      17
4 Results
Four sample datasets were created, as explained in Section 2, and the datasets were analysed
to answer the research questions outlines in Section 3.1 as follows.
4.1 RQ1: What are the rules and standards of SCA tools that generate warnings for
    specific source code datasets?
For PMD, we used the "rulesets/internal/all-java.xml" rulesets to identify all code quality
violations in both code bases and example rules in PMD and code examples with related issues
are shown in Table 9. PMD checks the source code against rules defined, and the related issue
line is identified. PMD then return the issue with issue line, rule, and a description. There were
271 total rules in PMD, and out of those rules, 221 rules generated code violations. Of the 221
rules, 178 comply with at least one standard referred to in Section 3.4. Furthermore, two rules
violated those standards, and 41 rules neither violated nor adhered to them.
Table 9 Examples for PMD rules and source codes with related issues – AddEmptyString,
ArrayIsStoredDirectly, AssignmentInOperand, CommentRequired
 PMD rule                Example source code
 AddEmptyString          public class C355962{
                         String result = (System.currentTimeMillis() * 1000) + ""; // issue_line
                         }
 ArrayIsStoredDirectly   public class FooA {
                               public int[] mData;
                               public FooA(int[] arr) {
                                  System.out.println("aa");
                                  mData = arr;// issue_line
                               }
                         }
 AssignmentInOperand     public class C250127{
                         public boolean isPalindrome(String s) {
                            s = s.replaceAll("[^a-zA-Z0-9]", "").toLowerCase(); // issue_line
                            int b = 0;
                            int e = s.length()-1;

                             while(b < e) {
                                if(s.charAt(b++) != s.charAt(e--))
                                   return false;
                             }
                             return true;
                         }

                         }
 CommentRequired         public class C299113{
                         String hot89_9= new String("Hot 89.9"); //issue_line
                         }



For SonarQube, there were 632 rules for the Java language. Of that sum, 359 rules generated
code violations for the two source code datasets, where 290 rules adhered to the standards
outlined in Section 3.4. Moreover, two rules violated those standards, and 67 rules neither
violated nor adhered to the standards. Furthermore, deprecated rules, Beta rules and Rule
templates were excluded before analysis, and there were 15 rules belonging to these categories.
Additionally, Table 10 shows some example rules in SonarQube along with related code
examples and related issue lines, with the outcome of SonarQube being similar to PMD.
Table 10 Examples for SoanrQube rules and source codes with related issues – Method names
should comply with a naming convention, Standard outputs should not be used directly to log



                                                          18
anything, An open curly brace should be located at the end of a line, Wildcard imports should
not be used
 SonarQube rule                                     Example source code
 M h            h                w h                public class C102762{
    v ti                                            public boolean AnswerCall(String r) { // issue_line
                                                       return r.equals("Brother");
                                                    }
                                                    }
 Standard outputs should not be used directly to    public class C36028{
 log anything                                       static void data() {
                                                       int array[] = {1,5,6};
                                                       int alength = array.length;
                                                       System.out.println(" Location\tData"); // issue_line
                                                       for(int i=0;i<alength;i++) {
                                                          System.out.println(" " + i + "\t\t" + array[i]);
                                                       }
                                                    }

                                                    }
 An open curly brace should be located at the end   public class C101875{
 of a line                                          public void remove()
                                                    { //Issue_line
                                                       throw new UnsupportedOperationException();
                                                    }
                                                    }
 Wildcard imports should not be used                import java.awt.image.BufferedImage;
                                                    import javax.swing.*; // issue_line
                                                    import javax.swing.border.*;

                                                    public class ThreePartBorder {



The complete set of rules and their compliance with standards are provided in our replication
package21 [17], and a summary of the outcomes is provided in Table 11, where it is shown that
SonarQube has more rules than PMD. Additionally, PMD identified code violations across
nearly all its rules for the code datasets, while only around 50% of SonarQube rules highlighted
violations in the same two datasets.
Table 11 Summary of rules and compliance in PMD and SonarQube
 SCA tool            Number       of      Number of rules which       Number of rules      Number of rules     Number of rules
                     usable rules         generated        code       with standards       without standards   against standards
                                          violations
 PMD                 271                  221                         178                  41                  2
 SonarQube           632                  359                         290                  67                  2



There were three types of rules, as mentioned in Table 3. Those types were: (1) SCA rules
which are aligned with the standards, (2) SCA rules which are against the standards, and (3)
SCA rules which are neither aligned with nor against the standards. Following these rule types,
the number of rules with standards and the number of rules without and against standards are
mentioned in Table 11. The established standards, used to validate rules, are discussed in
Section 3.4. In our study, only the SCA rules that generated warnings for our two code datasets
were considered for identifying standards. Among these rules, the majority had at least one
defined standard. However, a significant number of rules do not have defined standards.
Additionally, only two rules for each SCA tool contradicted the established standards.
Appendix A and Appendix B demonstrate the established standards and the number of rules
related to the standards for PMD and SonarQube, respectively. Furthermore, the number of

21
     Replication package >> PMD and SonarQube rules with standards.xlsx

                                                                    19
rules is calculated such that any rule associated with multiple standards is counted multiple
times, once per standard. According to Appendix A, there were 12 standards used for PMD.
Furthermore, as shown in Appendix B, a total of 11 standards were utilised for SonarQube. A
comparison of Appendix A and Appendix B is shown in Figure 4. Figure 4 demonstrates the
top 10 standards used to annotate code violations generated by PMD and SonarQube rules.
According to Figure 4, the most used standard was JDK Documentation, and the second was
the SEI website22 for both PMD and SonarQube. Moreover, OWASP23 has the lowest rule
count. In addition, SonarQube has more rules than PMD in total, and consequently, SonarQube
has the highest rule counts under most standards.
We further discussed in detail the number of rules that produced warnings and their distribution
across the rule types below, which were classified based on the applicability of the established
standards. The rules of SCA tools were categorised by the vendors of the SCA tools based on
properties of these rules. These categories, along with the number of rules belonging to these
categories, are mentioned in Table 6 for PMD and Table 7 for SonarQube.




Figure 4 Top 10 standards used to classify rules


Table 12 Different rule categories of PMD
 Rule type         Number of Rules generating warnings
 Best Practices    43
 Code Style        46
 Design            39
 Documentation     4
 Error Prone       57
 Multithreading    10
 Performance       22




22
     https://wiki.sei.cmu.edu
23
     https://owasp.org

                                                         20
According to the official website of PMD24, there are seven categories of rules in PMD, and
those rules, along with the number of rules which reported warnings for our two datasets, are
shown in Table 12. Rules that reported warnings for our two datasets covered all the types of
rules in PMD. In addition, most of these rules belong to the “Error Prone” category. Moreover,
the “Documentation” category has only four rules.
According to the SonarQube official website25, there are four types of rules in SonarQube:
“Code Smell” (maintainability domain), “Bug” (reliability domain), “Vulnerability” (security
domain), and “Security Hotspot” (security domain). According to Table 13, rules that reported
warnings for our two datasets covered the “Code Smell”, “Bug”, and “Vulnerability” aspects
of the source code quality for SonarQube. A total of 276 rules, representing the majority of
warnings in our two source code datasets belong to the “Code Smell” category, and 65 and four
rules belong to the “Bug” and “Vulnerability” categories, respectively. Even though there were
no warnings in the “Security Hotspot” category, our warning datasets consist of warnings from
most categories. In comparison to existing studies, building ML models to identify false
positive warnings utilised datasets with a limited category of SCA warnings. However, our
datasets include SCA warnings corresponding to most of the categories in Table 7. According
to the existing studies summarised in Section 2, most of the warning datasets used to train ML
models to identify false positives lack diversity in rules, as the datasets consist of warnings
from only a few rules. Consequently, our four datasets would support the training of ML
models for classifying and identifying false positive warnings.
Table 13 Different rule categories of SonarQube
Rule type        Number of Rules generated warnings
Bug              65
Code Smell       276
Vulnerability    4
Security Hotspot 0



4.2 RQ2: Which rules are prone to false positives?
Previous studies have shown that SCA tools generate many false-positive SCA warnings [3-5].
However, we identified that not all the rules generate false suggestions. In both PMD and
SonarQube, specific rules generate false positives, as shown in Appendix C (for PMD) and
Appendix D (for SonarQube). In both Appendix C and Appendix D, the term “sample count”
refers to the number of samples calculated for each rule in Section 3.6. Furthermore, these
appendices show that these rules generate false positives only sometimes, and the percentage
of false positives is reported in the False Positive (FP) column, which is the ratio of false
positives to samples for each rule. Additionally, the top 10 rules which are prone to false
positives are shown in Figure 5 for PMD and Figure 6 for SonarQube.
Figure 5 presents the false positive warning distribution for Dataset 1 and Dataset 2, which are
the sample datasets generated by analysing the Stack Overflow code dataset and the Apache
Tomcat code dataset using PMD, as mentioned in the Table 6. In Figure 5, the vertical axis
represents the number of warnings that generated false positives, while the percentage of false
positives for each rule, relative to all identified false positives, is shown on top of the
corresponding bars. Figure 5 shows that for both Stack Overflow (Dataset 1) and Apache

24
     https://pmd.github.io/pmd/pmd_rules_java.html
25
     https://docs.sonarsource.com/sonarqube-server/10.2/user-guide/rules/overview/

                                                        21
Tomcat (Dataset 2) code, the rule with the highest number of reported false positives was
“CommentRequired”, followed by “LawOfDemeter”. However, only the top two rules are
common to both datasets. The rule that generated the third highest number of false warnings
for Stack Overflow code is “UseUtilityClass”, while for Apache Tomcat code it is
“JUnitTestsShouldIncludeAssert”. The other rules exhibit distinct patterns. Further details are
demonstrated in Appendix C.




a. PMD false positives for Stack Overflow b. PMD false positives for Apache Tomcat
    code                                            code
Figure 5 False positive distribution for PMD datasets (Y-axis shows the false positive count.
The percentage values of false positives for each rule, relative to all identified false positives,
are shown on top of the corresponding bars.)
Figure 6 visualises the false positive warning distribution for Stack Overflow and Apache
Tomcat code for the SonarQube analysis (refer to Table 6). In Figure 6, the vertical axis
indicates the number of warnings that generated false positives, while the percentage of false
positives for each rule, relative to all false positives identified, is displayed above the
corresponding bars. The SonarQube rule “Magic numbers should not be used” generated the
highest number of false positives in both datasets. For Stack Overflow code, the second highest
false positive is “Source code should be indented consistently”. In contrast, the rule “Track
lack of copyright and license headers” is the second most frequently reported cause of false
positives in Apache code. Moreover, only five rules produced false positives for Stack
Overflow code (Dataset 3), whereas 14 rules generated false positives for Apache Tomcat code
(Dataset 4). Additional details are reported in Appendix D.




   M                          h       ti   ti
    h         h         h v           ti            h
                                  h             h
                                      h


a. SonarQube false positives for Stack b. SonarQube false positives for Apache
   Overflow code                          Tomcat code




                                                        22
Figure 6 False positive distribution for SonarQube datasets (Y-axis shows the false positive
count. The percentage values of false positives for each rule, relative to all identified false
positives, are shown on top of the corresponding bars.)
Furthermore, as shown in Table 14, PMD produced warnings for 190 rules in Dataset 1 (Stack
Overflow code), and a total of 531 samples have been chosen for manual checks to identify
false alarms. A total of 98 false positives are seen, caused by 13 rules. Furthermore, some
standards have been established for ten rules, but we could not identify any for three rules. A
summary of these outcomes and those for SonarQube is shown in Table 14, where the highest
false positive rates were reported for PMD, and most of the rules prone to false positives were
governed by standards, as demonstrated in Table 14. Other outcomes are seen for SonarQube
show that there were fewer false positives for Stack Overflow than Apache Tomcat code.
Overall, findings indicate that only a few rules are accountable for generating numerous false
positive code violations.
Table 14 Number of rules prone to false positive for rules with/without standards
 Sample      SCA     Dataset   Number     Sampl    Number      Percentage      Number        Number     Number     Percenta
 Dataset     tool              of rules   e size   of false    of      false   of    rules   of rules   of rules   ge      of
                               which               positives   positives       which         with       without    rules that
                               generat                                         generate      standar    standar    generate
                               ed                                              false         ds         ds         d    false
                               results                                         positives                           positives
 Dataset 1   PMD     Stack     190        531      98          18.45           13            10         3          6.84%
                     Overflo
                     w
                     dataset
 Dataset 2   PMD     Apache    199        536      72          13.43           16            12         4          8.04%
                     Tomcat
 Dataset 3   Sonar   Stack     312        646      30          4.64            5             3          2          1.60%
             Qube    Overflo
                     w
                     dataset
 Dataset 4   Sonar   Apache    283        631      44          6.97            14            12         2          4.95%
             Qube    Tomcat



4.3 RQ3: What are the reasons for reported false positives by SCA tools?
A summary of the outcomes to answer this RQ is shown in Table 15 and Table 16, while
additional details are provided in our replication package26 [17]. In Table 15, there are three
reasons for false positives generated by PMD. The primary reason for this is that most of the
reported SCA warnings do not require attention base on the established standards, allowing
these warnings to be safely disregarded without further action. For example, the PMD rule –
“CommentRequired” advises adding comments to variables (fields) in the source code.
However, it partially aligns with the defined standards, and according to the book “Clean Code”
and the JDK documentation, field comments are considered unnecessary, and the variable name
should be self-explanatory. Consequently, those alarms have been identified as false positives.
However, we have considered the rule in our analysis, because not all the warnings it generates
can be ignored under the defined standards. For example, according to established standards,
Java main methods require comments, and warnings for missing comments for Java main
methods are also reported under the “CommentRequired” rule. The second most common cause
of false positive alerts from SCA tools is the tool's misidentification of source code patterns.


26
  Replication package >> Appendices >> Appendix E_Reason for False Positives in PMD.docx and Appendix
F_Reason for False Positives in SonarQube.docx

                                                          23
For instance, PMD has misidentified a group of “if” statements in the source code as being
deeply nested “if” statements. Although rare, there is another reason SCA tools may generate
false alarms (“Rules enforcement conflicts with intended code behaviour”). Some source code
implementations might not conform to the SCA tool’s rules, when there is no alternative
method to implement this source code correctly. For instance, if a developer needs to copy an
array while altering their index positions, it is not feasible to use the “System.arraycopy” Java
method as recommended by the PMD rule. Furthermore, this trend is also typical for both Stack
Overflow and Apache Tomcat code, as illustrated in Figure 7.
Table 15 Reason for PMD false positives for Stack Overflow and Apache Tomcat code
 Generalised Reason                               PMD false positive count in Stack   PMD false positive count in Apache
                                                  Overflow code                       code
 It is not required according to the standards    79                                  51
 The tool could not identify code patterns        18                                  19
 Rules enforcement conflicts with intended code   1                                   2
 behaviour
 Total                                            98                                  72




                                   h
                                                                                                 h
            h                ti
                                                                            h              ti
                                  w h              h v                                          w h    h v


Reasons for false positives for Stack Overflow Reasons for false positives for Apache Tomcat
code                                           code
Figure 7 Reasons for false positives generated by PMD
In Table 16, there are three reasons for SonarQube false positives in Stack Overflow and
Apache Tomcat code. The most frequent reason for Stack Overflow code is “Sufficient
readability even without following the rule,” whereby even if the rule is not followed, the
source code can still be easily understood, despite not adhering to SonarQube's guidelines. As
a result, adhering to the rules is unnecessary [69]. Mainly, the SonarQube rule - “Magic
numbers should not be used” caused this disagreement. We evaluated the readability of the
number reported as a magic number by manually checking whether it was understood by
analysing source code near the issue line, such as comments and the name of the element list
(if the number belongs to any Java collection). In Apache Tomcat code, SonarQube mostly
produced false positives because the SCA tool failed to recognise the code pattern. For instance,
SonarQube indicates in some warnings that some code lines are inconsistently indented27,

27
     https://google.github.io/styleguide/javaguide.html#s4.2-block-indentation

                                                              24
which is a misleading recommendation. The second most common reason for generating false
positive warnings in both datasets is that the source code cannot be implemented by developers
in accordance with the SonarQube rule (“Rules enforcement conflicts with intended code
behaviour”). If the developer adhered to the rule, the source code would produce unintended
results. For example, if the developer needs to copy one Java array to another while modifying
data, it is impossible to use the ‘Arrays.copyOf’ method as recommended by SonarQube.
Outcomes here suggest that refining the rules of SCA tools to mitigate these issues could reduce
the generation of false warnings by these tools.
Table 16 Reason for SonarQube false positives of Stack Overflow and Apache Tomcat code
 Generalised Reason                               False positive count in Dataset 3   False positive count in Dataset 4
 Sufficient readability even without following    13                                  9
 the rule
 Rules enforcement conflicts with intended code   12                                  12
 behaviour
 The tool could not identify code patterns        5                                   23
 Total                                            30                                  44




                           v     w h       w      h                                   v     w h     w    h
                                  w h                  h v                                   w h              h v
        h                   ti                                                 h       ti


Reasons for false positives for Stack Overflow Reasons for false positives for Apache Tomcat
code                                           code
Figure 8 Reasons for false positives generated by SonarQube
The top five rules shown in Figure 5 and Figure 6 were selected, and the reasons they produced
false-positive warnings in PMD and SonarQube are detailed in Table 17 and Table 18,
respectively. Here it is shown that the primary reason the majority of rules generate false
positives is the tool’s inability to identify code patterns in both PMD and SonarQube.
Additionally, following some warning recommendations will affect the intended behaviour of
the source code. Therefore, this is also a reason why both PMD and SonarQube generate false
positives. Moreover, in PMD, many rules generate false positives because those warnings can
be ignored when following established standards. Furthermore, in SonarQube, some warnings

                                                                 25
can be ignored because the source code remains readable even without following them, as
expected by the SonarQube rule.
Table 17 Reasons for PMD generating false positives for the top 5 rules in Dataset 1 and Dataset
2
Rule                               Data Reason Example source codes
                                   sets
       a.   AvoidArrayLoops        Datas Rules
                                   et 1 enforce   public static void main(String[] s)
                                         ment     {
                                         conflict         int[] array = {1,2,3,4,5};
                                         s with
                                         the
                                         intende          int temp = array[4];
                                         d code
                                         behavio         for(int i=array.length-1;i>0;i--) // issue_line
                                         ur.              {
                                                             array[i]=array[i-1];
                                                          }

                                                                array[0]= temp;

                                                                for(int i=0;i<array.length;i++)
                                                                {
                                                                   System.out.println(array[i]);
                                                                }

                                                        }
                                                    }
       b.   AvoidThrowingNewInsta Datas The            if (getInitParameter(HTTPS_SERVER_PORT_PARAMETER) != null) {
            nceOfSameException    et 2 tool               try {
                                        could
                                        not      setHttpsServerPort(Integer.parseInt(getInitParameter(HTTPS_SERVER_PORT_PARA
                                        identify METER)));
                                        code              } catch (NumberFormatException e) { // issue_line
                                        patterns             throw                                                         new
                                        .        NumberFormatException(sm.getString("remoteIpFilter.invalidNumber",
                                                                   HTTPS_SERVER_PORT_PARAMETER, e.getLocalizedMessage()));
                                                           }
                                                       }

                                                            if (getInitParameter(ENABLE_LOOKUPS_PARAMETER) != null) {

                                                    setEnableLookups(Boolean.parseBoolean(getInitParameter(ENABLE_LOOKUPS_PAR
                                                    AMETER)));
                                                           }
                                                        }
       c.   CloneMethodMustBePub Datas The           public class CloneMe {
            lic                  et 1 tool             int version;
                                       could          Another another;
                                       not
                                       identify         public CloneMe(int newVersion, Another obj) {
                                       code                this.version = newVersion;
                                       patterns            this.another = obj;
                                       .                }
                                                        // and so on

                                                        @Override
                                                        protected Object clone() throws CloneNotSupportedException { // issue_line
                                                          return super.clone(); // You can also provide your own implementation here
                                                        }
                                                    }
       d.   CloseResource          Datas Rules              protected void doGet(HttpServletRequest request, HttpServletResponse response)
                                   et 2 enforce                  throws ServletException, IOException {
                                         ment
                                         conflict             response.setContentType("text/plain");
                                         s with               response.setCharacterEncoding("UTF-8");
                                         the
                                         intende             PrintWriter pw = response.getWriter(); // issue_line
                                         d code              pw.print("Enter-");
                                         behavio
                                         ur.


                                                                      26
e.   CommentRequired         Datas It is not import java.util.Random;
                             ets 1 require
                             and 2 d         public class TheMontyHallParadox { // issue_line
                                   accordi public static void main(String[] args) {
                                   ng to         final int NUMBER_OF_DOORS = 3;
                                   the           int winBySticking = 0;
                                   standar
                                   ds.
f.   JUnitTestsShouldInclude Datas The         @Test
     Assert                  et 2 tool         public void testSpecification03() throws Exception { // issue_line
                                   could           // Reported as failing during 8.0.11 release vote by Ognjen Blagojevic
                                   not             // EDH was introduced in 1.0.0
                                   identify
                                   code testSpecification("EECDH+aRSA+SHA384:EECDH:EDH+aRSA:RC4:!aNULL:!eNU
                                   patterns LL:!LOW:!3DES:!MD5:!EXP:!PSK:!SRP:!DSS");
                                   .           }

g.   LawOfDemeter           Datas It is not   private List<Runnable> drainQueue() {
                            et 1 require         BlockingQueue<Runnable> q = workQueue;
                                  d             ArrayList<Runnable> taskList = new ArrayList<>();
                                  accordi        q.drainTo(taskList); // issue_line
                                  ng to          if (!q.isEmpty()) {
                                  the               for (Runnable r : q.toArray(new Runnable[0])) {
                                  standar              if (q.remove(r)) {
                                  ds.                     taskList.add(r);
                                                       }
                                                    }
                                                 }
                                                 return taskList;
                                              }
                                  The            jtf.setForeground(Color.BLUE);
                                  tool
                                  could           b.addActionListener(new BoutonListener());
                                  not
                                  identify        top.add(label);
                                  code            top.add(jtf);
                                  patterns        top.add(b);
                                  .
                                                  this.setContentPane(top);
                                                  this.setVisible(true);
                                              }

                                              class BoutonListener implements ActionListener {
                                                 private final AtomicInteger nbTry = new AtomicInteger(0);
                                                 ArrayList<Integer> pins = readPinsData("bdd.txt");
                                                 public void actionPerformed(ActionEvent e) {
                                                    if (nbTry.get() > 2) {
                                                       JOptionPane.showMessageDialog(null, "Number of tries exceeded");
                                                       return;
                                                    }
                                                    final String passEntered=jtf.getText().replaceAll("\u00A0", ""); // issue_line
                                                    if (passEntered.length() != 4) {
                                                       System.out.println("Pin must be 4 digits");
                                                       JOptionPane.showMessageDialog(null, "Ping must be 4 digits");
                                                       return;
                                                    }

h.   UselessParentheses     Datas It is not     boolean           verifyErrorIsOptional =  (errnum                                   ==
                            et 2 require X509_V_ERR_DEPTH_ZERO_SELF_SIGNED_CERT()) // issue_line
                                  d
                                  accordi
                                  ng to
                                  the
                                  standar
                                  ds.
i.   UseUtilityClass        Datas The       import java.util.Map;
                            et 1 tool
                                  could class so1 { // issue_line
                                  not
                                  identify
                                  code
                                  patterns
                                  .




                                                             27
Table 18 Reasons for SonarQube generating False positives for the top 5 rules in Dataset 3 and
Dataset 4
Rule Description          Dataset Reason         Example source codes
    a.   Classes should Dataset      The tool      static class Gast1 extends JPanel { // issue_line
         not have too   1            could not
         many fields                 identify        // de knoppen, textvelden en labels
                                     code            private JTextField TF1_VNaam, TF1_TussenVoegsel, TF1_ANaam, TF1_Straat,
                                     patterns.   TF1_SNummer, TF1_Postcode,
                                                           TF1_Plaatsnaam, TF1_GD, TF1_Tel, TF1_Email, TF1_Zoeken;
                                                          private JLabel L1_VNaam, L1_TussenVoegsel, L1_ANaam, L1_Straat,
                                                 L1_Postcode, L1_Plaatsnaam, L1_GD, L1_Tel,
                                                           L1_Email;
                                                     private JButton B1_Instellingen, B1_Zoeken, B1_Vorige, B1_Volgende;

                                                     public Gast1(final JFrame maker) {
                                                       super();

                                                        // layout manager uit
                                                        setLayout(null);

                                                        // Textvelden
                                                        TF1_VNaam = new JTextField(10);
                                                        TF1_TussenVoegsel = new JTextField(10);
                                                        TF1_ANaam = new JTextField(10);
                                                        TF1_Straat = new JTextField(10);
                                                        TF1_SNummer = new JTextField(10);
                                                        TF1_Postcode = new JTextField(10);
                                                        TF1_Plaatsnaam = new JTextField(10);
                                                        TF1_GD = new JTextField(10);
                                                        TF1_Tel = new JTextField(10);
                                                        TF1_Email = new JTextField(10);
                                                        TF1_Zoeken = new JTextField(10);

    b.   Close curly      Dataset    The tool           } catch (ProtocolException e) {
         brace and the    2          could not             // Protocol exceptions normally mean the client sent invalid or
         next "else",                identify              // incomplete data.
         "catch" and                 code
         "finally"                   patterns.   getLog().debug(sm.getString("abstractConnectionHandler.protocolexception.debug"),
         keywords                                e);
         should be                                         }
         located on the                                    // Future developers: if you discover any other
         same line                                         // rare-but-nonfatal exceptions, catch them here, and log as
                                                           // above.
                                                           catch (OutOfMemoryError oome) { // issue_line
                                                               // Try and handle this here to give Tomcat a chance to close the
                                                               // connection and prevent clients waiting until they time out.
    c.   equals(Object    Dataset    The tool        @Override
         obj) should      1          could not       public boolean equals(Object other) { // issue_line
         test the                    identify           boolean result = (other instanceof UniqueId);
         argument's                  code               if ( result ) {
         type                        patterns.             UniqueId uid = (UniqueId)other;
                                                           if ( this.id == null && uid.id == null ) {
                                                               result = true;
                                                           } else if ( this.id == null && uid.id != null ) {
                                                               result = false;
                                                           } else if ( this.id != null && uid.id == null ) {
                                                               result = false;
                                                           } else {
                                                               result = Arrays.equals(this.id,uid.id);
                                                           }
                                                        }//end if
                                                        return result;
                                                     }
    d.   Lazy              Dataset   The tool     public static void main(String[] args) {
         initialization of 1         could not       t1 = new Thread(new Runnable() { // issue_line
         "static" fields             identify           public void run() {
         should be                   code                  increment();
         "synchronized"              patterns.          }
                                                     });

                                                   t2 = new Thread(new Runnable() {
                                                      public void run() {


                                                                28
                                                      t1.start();
                                             // t1 starts after t2. Now, t1's increment might also be called or t2's increment() might
                                            also be called. If t2 calls increment(), then the join() method below (you are joining the
                                            in the main thread) will be completed and "n" will be printed (if t1 is not getting
                                            appropriate time of execution..)
                                                      increment();
                                                    }
                                                 });

                                                t2.start();      // t2 starts first

                                                try {
                                                   t2.join();
                                                } catch(InterruptedException e) {
                                                   e.printStackTrace();
                                                }

                                                System.out.println(n); // increment() might not have been called by t1
                                            }
e.   Magic           Datasets Rules               int[][] one =
     numbers         1 and 2 enforcement          { { 1, 2, 3 }, // issue_line
     should not be            conflicts            { 4, 5, 6 } };
     used                     with the
                              intended
                              code
                              behaviour.
                              Sufficient     class C285456{
                              readability    public static final String SAMPLE_TEXT = "This is a sample code line 1.\nThis is a
                              even          sample code line 2.\r\n\nWarm Regards,\r\nSomeUser.";
                              without
                              following      public static void main (String[] args) throws java.lang.Exception {
                              the rule.         String[] lines = SAMPLE_TEXT.split("\\r?\\n"); // catches Windows newlines (\r)
                                            as well)
                                                for (int i = 0; i < lines.length - 3; i++) { // lines.length - 3 to discard the last 3 lines
                                            // issue_line
                                                   System.out.println(lines[i]);
                                                }
                                             }

                                           }
f.   Member          Dataset   Rules       class constants$4 {
     variable        2         enforcement
     visibility                conflicts      static final FunctionDescriptor BN_get_rfc3526_prime_6144$FUNC                              =
     should be                 with the    FunctionDescriptor.of(C_POINTER,
     specified                 intended          C_POINTER
                               code           );
                               behaviour.     static     final    MethodHandle    BN_get_rfc3526_prime_6144$MH                            =
                                           RuntimeHelper.downcallHandle(
                                                 openssl_h.LIBRARIES, "BN_get_rfc3526_prime_6144",

                                            "(Ljdk/incubator/foreign/MemoryAddress;)Ljdk/incubator/foreign/MemoryAddress;",
                                                  constants$4.BN_get_rfc3526_prime_6144$FUNC, false
                                               );
                                               static final FunctionDescriptor BN_get_rfc3526_prime_8192$FUNC =
                                            FunctionDescriptor.of(C_POINTER,
                                                  C_POINTER
                                               );
                                               static     final    MethodHandle     BN_get_rfc3526_prime_8192$MH         =
                                            RuntimeHelper.downcallHandle(
                                                  openssl_h.LIBRARIES, "BN_get_rfc3526_prime_8192",

                                            "(Ljdk/incubator/foreign/MemoryAddress;)Ljdk/incubator/foreign/MemoryAddress;",
                                                   constants$4.BN_get_rfc3526_prime_8192$FUNC, false
                                                );
                                                static    final    FunctionDescriptor   ASN1_STRING_length$FUNC          =
                                            FunctionDescriptor.of(C_INT, // issue_line
                                                   C_POINTER
                                                );
g.   Source code     Datasets The tool       class RepaintFrameTest extends JFrame {
     should be       1 and 2 could not
     indented                 identify          private JPanel panel = new JPanel();
     consistently             code              private JLabel labelOne = new JLabel("label1");
                              patterns.         private JLabel labelTwo = new JLabel("label2");
                                                private JLabel labelThree = new JLabel("label3");



                                                              29
                                                  public RepaintFrameTest() {
                                                    add(panel);
                                                  }

                                                  public void reapplyLabels() {
                                                    panel.add(labelOne);
                                                    panel.add(labelTwo);
                                                    panel.add(labelThree);

                                                      revalidate();
                                                      repaint();
                                                  }

                                                  public static void main(String args[]) {
                                                    EventQueue.invokeLater(new Runnable() {
                                                       @Override
                                                       public void run() {
                                                          try { // issue_line

                                                UIManager.setLookAndFeel(UIManager.getSystemLookAndFeelClassName());
                                                          }    catch    (ClassNotFoundException  |   InstantiationException   |
                                                IllegalAccessException | UnsupportedLookAndFeelException ex) {
                                                          }

     h.   Track lack of   Dataset   The tool     **/* // issue_line
          copyright and 2           could not     * Licensed to the Apache Software Foundation (ASF) under one or more
          license headers           identify      * contributor license agreements. See the NOTICE file distributed with
                                    code          * this work for additional information regarding copyright ownership.
                                    patterns.     * The ASF licenses this file to You under the Apache License, Version 2.0
                                                  * (the "License"); you may not use this file except in compliance with
                                                  * the License. You may obtain a copy of the License at
                                                  *
                                                  * http://www.apache.org/licenses/LICENSE-2.0
                                                  *
                                                  * Unless required by applicable law or agreed to in writing, software
                                                  * distributed under the License is distributed on an "AS IS" BASIS,
                                                  * WITHOUT WARRANTIES OR CONDITIONS OF ANY KIND, either express or
                                                implied.
                                                  * See the License for the specific language governing permissions and
                                                  * limitations under the License.
                                                  */
                                                 package jakarta.el;

                                                import java.lang.reflect.Method;
                                                import java.lang.reflect.Modifier;



4.4 RQ4: Are there any gaps in code violation classification between selected SCA
    tools and established standards?
When annotating warnings generated by SCA tools, we initially investigated whether SCA
rules were aligned with the standards. Then, the warnings were labelled according to the rule
description if it was entirely aligned with the standards. Otherwise, warnings were labelled
based on the defined standards. However, if there were no defined standards, then we labelled
warnings only using the rule description. In this process, we identified some gaps on code
violation classification between selected SCA tools and established standards are reported in
our replication package28 [17], and summarised in Table 19. Here it is shown that the most
frequent gap between defined standards and SCA rule description was the inability to identify
any standards for some SCA tool rules. For instance, there were no relevant standards for the
SonarQube rule – “Methods should not have too many lines”. In fact, such a rule should
define/provide a value for the maximum number of lines. However, according to SOLID, a
method should only have one responsibility (Single responsibility principle), whereas the Java

28
  Replication package >> Appendices >> Appendix I_Disagreements on code violation classification between
the sele.docx

                                                                30
method should have only one reason to be modified [69]. Even to achieve a single
responsibility, the number of lines required in a method body may vary, thus researchers need
to examine this issue [70]. Furthermore, we did not identify standards for specific rules,
possibly because these standards are still to be established. As a result, we considered this to
be a gap between SCA tool developers and standard organisations and these rules were
identified as non-standardised rules.
Another gap is that rules do not conform to the identified standards. For example, according to
the SonarQube rule – “An open curly brace should be located at the beginning of a line”, the
open curly brace should be located at the beginning of the code line in source code. Still,
according to the Google Java Coding Style Guide, the open curly brace should be located at
the end of the previous code line. Much like the previously mentioned example, two rules for
each chosen SCA tool did not align with the current standards.
Table 19 Gaps between SCA rule description and defined standards
 Tool                    Gaps between SCA rule description and defined standards   Number of Rules
 PMD                     The rule is not adherent to the standard                  2
 PMD                     The authors could not find any standards for the rule     41
 SonarQube               The rule is not adherent to the standard                  2
 SonarQube               The authors could not find any standards for the rule     67



Overall, we believe that the cause of these gaps above lies in the experience and knowledge
gap between the Tool Developers and the body responsible for defining coding standards. SCA
tools have defined their rules based on the experience of the software engineering community
and their preference for coding styles29. In contrast, the standards are defined by facts,
evidence, and a higher level of experience in software engineering. Consequently,
disagreements may arise between the two views. However, academia must undertake research
to identify or establish standards for rules that lack defined standards.

5 Discussion and Implications
This study focuses on the rules used to detect possible code quality violations by selected SCA
tools (PMD and SonarQube), the rules prone to false positives, the reasons for generating false
positives, and gaps between SCA tools’ rules and established standards. Two source code
datasets comprising Stack Overflow and Apache Tomcat code were analysed using PMD and
SonarQube to create four violation datasets. Since it is not practical to manually check all the
issues reported, four random samples with a 95% confidence level and 5% error rate were
prepared for further investigation. We answer our research questions based on the outcomes of
this investigation.
RQ1: What are the rules and standards of SCA tools that generate warnings for specific
source code datasets?
Outcomes show that the majority of PMD rules triggered SCA warnings for the code datasets
studied. In comparison, only approximately 50% of SonarQube rules produced SCA warnings
for the same datasets. Accordingly, PMD rules were more relevant than SonarQube rules for
our four datasets. Moreover, for the rules which generated warnings from both the SCA tools,
most of the rules adhere to at least one standard researched in Section 3.4. However, appropriate

29
     https://community.sonarsource.com/c/clean-code/43

                                                           31
standards are not seen for many rules. PMD used 12 established standards for their rules, while
SonarQube used 11 established standards. Our outcomes here provide a good understanding of
the current rules of both PMD and SonarQube and the applicability of established standards for
PMD and SonarQube. Although most rules of both SCA tools have defined standards, it is
essential to investigate further the SCA rules that lack defined standards.
We compared the outcomes of RQ1 with those of existing studies summarised in Section 3.
According to existing studies, Fatima et al. [35], Ramler et al.[36], Ashfaq et al. [37], and
Lenarduzzi et al. [39] identified some of the rules available in SCA tools. However, these
studies do not identify all the rules available in the SCA tools they examined, and they have
not identified any established standards applicable to the rules of the SCA tools. Moreover,
Charoenwet et al. [40], Ozturk et al. [41], and Alqaradaghi and Kozsik [42] identified standards
for several SCA rules based on CWEs maintained by Mitra and OWASP. However, these
studies were also not comprehensive as they studied only a few rules. Furthermore, Bánsághi
et al. [43] and Forouzani et al. [44] conducted their study to map rules of SCA tools to the
quality characteristics defined in software quality models such as ISO/IEC 9126 and ISO/IEC
25010. However, these efforts were made to categorise the rules in SCA tools, and they do not
identify any established standards applicable to the rules of SCA tools. Conversely, our study
comprehensively studied all the rules that generated warnings for both the Stack overflow code
dataset and the Apache Tomcat code dataset, identifying established standards applicable to
these rules. Additionally, we used the established standards to investigate potential gaps
between the descriptions of each SCA tool’s rules and the standards. The results of this
investigation are reported in RQ4.
Recommendations from RQ1
The outcome of the RQ1 provides several recommendations for the Tool Developers, the
Practitioner Community and the Research Community. Tool Developers can follow
established standards to define rules. This helps to prevent the Practitioner Community from
using non-standardised coding patterns. Moreover, they need to mention the referred standards
in the rule description for more transparency of the applicable standards for the SCA tool’s
rules. To extend the effort taken by the Tool Developers, the Practitioner Community also
needs to follow established standards when writing source code and fixing SCA warnings. This
helps to standardise the coding patterns used in the software. An option to ensure they use only
the rules that adhere to established standards is to disable those that do not comply with such
standards. Because fixing some warnings (mostly warnings generated by rules that do not
follow established standards) might not be necessary and may add more complexity
unnecessarily. However, to identify the rules which do not follow establish standards, the
Research Community should conduct more comprehensive studies on SCA rules and
established standards mainly for other widely used SCA tools and rules we haven’t considered
in this study as we have only considered the rules which generated warnings for our two source
code datasets. Furthermore, the Research Community can conduct further studies to find more
established standards that we might have missed.
RQ2: Which SCA rules are prone to false positives?
Results in the previous section shows that only a few rules produce false positives, and among
these, only some account for most false positive warning rates. However, most of the rules that
generated false positive warnings have established standards. Moreover, addressing the most

                                              32
frequently generated false positives would decrease the false positive percentage, as those rules
contribute 72%, 64%, 83%, and 30% for false positive warning count of our four datasets,
respectively.
Zheng et al. [18] used commit histories to label the warning dataset. They classified a warning
as a true positive if it was resolved in a subsequent commit and as a false positive if it remained
unresolved in a subsequent commit. Wang et al. [24] were also used a similar approach to
annotate their warning dataset. Hegedus and Ferenc [10] annotated their warning dataset using
“//NOSONAR” comment in the source code. Originally, this comment was used to ignore the
warning in SonarQube. Therefore, if the comments were attached to the reported warning, then
the warning was labelled as a false positive warning, and warnings were classified as true
positives if there were no “//NOSONAR” comments attached to the reported warnings.
However, the quality of these automated annotated datasets remains concerning [11] and to
annotate warning datasets, these studies did not use any established standards. To address some
of these issues, artificially synthesised datasets such as the Juliet vulnerability dataset [12] was
created. However, the data points in these datasets exhibit limited diversity. Conversely, our
datasets were annotated manually using established standards outlined in the Section 3.4.
Recommendations from RQ2
The results generated from RQ2 suggest several recommendations for the Tool Developers,
the Practitioner Community and the Research Community. According to the results, Tool
Developers should fix rules that are frequently prone to false positives for two reasons. The
first reason is that identifying false positive warnings wastes developers’ time. The second
reason is that the Practitioner Community might not identify false positive warnings, and trying
to fix these warnings might make the software buggy and lower the quality of the source code.
Conversely, the Practitioner Community can disable or give more attention to rules that are
prone to false positives. This will help the Practitioner Community to use standard coding
patterns while preventing them from blindly fixing SCA warnings. To identify the rules that
are more prone to false positives, the Research Community should study these rules and
define standards to fill the gap if there is a lack of standards.
RQ3: What are the reasons for reported false positives by SCA tools?
The reasons for SCA tools to generate false positive suggestions are the tools' misidentification
of source code patterns, fixing the warnings generated by SCA tools is not required in
accordance with the established standards, and the purpose of the source code cannot be
fulfilled if the developer follows the warning. Therefore, fixing the rules of SCA tools to
mitigate these reasons can reduce the SCA tools from generating false warnings. In contrast,
established standards may not be considered newly introduced rules, and with the improvement
of those standards, some false warnings may be reclassified as actual warnings.
We conducted a comprehensive literature survey to compare our study with existing studies.
According to our findings, there are no related studies that discuss the reasons for generating
false positive warnings. To fill this gap, we analysed the false positive warnings according to
the established standards to identify the causes behind generating false positive warnings. This
streamlines the annotation of warnings in an unlabelled warning dataset. Additionally, it offers
insights to SCA Tool Developers, helping them refine the rules that produce a significant
amount of false positive warnings, thus lessening the burden on practitioners.

                                                33
Recommendations from RQ3
The results of RQ3 have multiple implications for Tool Developers, the Practitioner
Community, and the Research Community. We identified several rules that contribute to the
most false positive warnings. By fixing those rules, SCA tools will generate significantly fewer
false-positive warnings, encouraging their use. We recommend that Tool Developers prioritise
fixing those rules that cause false positives generated by SCA tools, by reducing the causes of
false positives. Conversely, the Practitioner Community can reduce common patterns of
causes for generating false positives, if possible, while developing software. Furthermore, to
identify more causes of generating false positives, the Research Community should study this
area and determine how to prevent these causes from both the Tool Developers' and the
Practitioner Community's perspectives.
RQ4: Are there any gaps in code violation classification between selected SCA tools and
established standards?
The most frequent gap between SCA rule description and defined standards was that the authors
could not find standards for some rules of SCA tools. There could be two reasons for this. The
first reason could be that standards can exist for some of those rules. However, authors might
have missed those standards. The second possible reason could be that some rules' standards
are yet to be defined, and researchers are still studying those areas. Hence, it would be a
valuable research contribution for academia and the software engineering Practitioner
Community to identify/define standards for rules that currently lack defined standards. Another
gap is that some SCA tools’ rules do not adhere to the established standards. In this study, we
identified rules which do not follow the established standards. Therefore, the developers of
SCA tools or the users of the tools can ignore the rules as they consistently produce false
warnings.
To compare the results generated by our study, we have conducted a comprehensive literature
study to identify existing studies on gaps between established standards and rule descriptions
of SCA tools. However, we were unable to find any related studies. Therefore, the outcome of
RQ4 provides a significant contribution to fill this gap.
Recommendations from RQ4
The results of RQ4 offer multiple recommendations for Tool Developers, the Practitioner
Community, and the Research Community. It is recommended that Tool Developers modify
SCA tools and their rules to prevent gaps between the description of SCA tools’ rules and
established code quality standards. In addition, the Practitioner Community should also
understand the existence of gaps between established standards and SCA tools’ rules
descriptions and the impossibility of fixing all the warnings generated by SCA tools, as there
are false positive warnings. Therefore, the Practitioner Community can disable rules that
disagree with established standards or thoroughly analyse warnings generated by these rules.
However, these gaps may arise from our failure to find certain standards. Therefore, the
Research Community should study gaps to find any missing standards. Additionally, they
should define standards for the SCA tool’s rules that lack established standards.

6 Threats to validity
In this section, the potential threats to the validity of this study are discussed [26, 28].

                                                 34
Internal Validity: We considered all warnings generated for each code dataset independently,
even though they were often generated from the same files or projects. Fixing one issue in one
file may automatically fix or introduce other warnings. While this threat is minimal, it was not
entirely eliminated, as for most rules, each warning has only a localised impact on the line or
block that generated the issue. Some examples of such rules are “CommentRequired” and
“MethodArgumentCouldBeFinal” in Dataset 1. As such, the warnings generated by the rule
“CommentRequired” do not impact other warnings. To investigate this issue, we examined the
top rules that accounted for the most warnings in our dataset. As shown in Appendix C and
Appendix D, the most frequently triggered rules, such as “CommentRequired” in PMD, and
“Magic numbers should not be used” and “Source code should be indented consistently” in
SonarQube, are each tied to a specific, isolated line of code and a single well-defined issue.
These rules collectively account for 62% of all PMD warnings and 94% of all SonarQube
warnings in our datasets, suggesting that the majority of warnings in our study are indeed
independent at the line level. On the other hand, there can be dependency between warnings if
SCA tools might identify the same coding pattern as an issue for one rule but not for another.
For example, SonarQube rules “An open curly brace should be located at the end of a line” and
“An open curly brace should be located at the beginning of a line” contradict each other.
Therefore, we used established standards to select a single rule where there were contradictions,
preventing such dependence in which the rules generate dependent warnings for the same
source code line. In this regard, the likelihood of generating dependent warnings is likely
minimal. However, we acknowledge that a small proportion of warnings from more complex
rules may be structurally related, and there can be some dependency between different SCA
warnings. Therefore, it is worth examining the impact of such rules, and we plan to investigate
this aspect in future work, as mentioned in Section 7. Furthermore, we performed several
modifications to the Stack Overflow code dataset to make the codebase compilable. By doing
so, there is a risk that the code modifications might have contributed to some warnings.
However, our goal in this study is to find as many warnings as possible and, if modifying the
file increases the number of warnings, that is beneficial to our analysis. Of note is that our focus
was aimed at understanding warnings, so even deliberate attempts at generating warnings
would have been useful.
Moreover, as explained in the Section 3.4, the standards used and presented in this study were
identified. Although most rules have defined standards, a considerable number of rules lack
such specifications. In this context, the descriptions of the rules were utilised to identify false
positives. Consequently, some standards remain unidentified, and based on these standards, the
labels of four datasets may be inaccurate. Nonetheless, we have endeavoured to find all
applicable standards to the best of our ability. Warnings were manually assessed according to
established standards to label four datasets. Moreover, using the official tool documentation as
a guideline to label warnings generated by rules without established standards may introduce a
degree of dependency on each tool’s internal justification. However, it allowed for consistent
interpretation across tools and avoided arbitrary or subjective external judgments for tool-
specific rules. Furthermore, this approach encourages readers to identify rules without
established standards and to define new standards. Furthermore, despite adherence to the
established standards, the authors may inadvertently misclassify the warnings due to
misunderstandings. To minimise errors, all authors discussed the standards, and several
software tools were developed to assist in the annotation process. Additionally, 10% of Dataset
1 and Dataset 3 were selected randomly, and two authors reviewed these samples together [71-

                                                35
73]. There were three data points out of 115 data points (51 data points in Dataset 1 and 64 data
points in Dataset 3) which recorded disagreements at the beginning of the reliability assessment
process. The Inter-rater agreement was calculated using Cohen’s Kappa between the authors
[74], which was found to be 0.6547, indicating a substantial agreement between the authors
based on the categories provided by Landis and Koch [75]. However, full agreement on the
115 samples was reached after a round of discussions [74], attesting to the strong reliability of
our datasets development [75].
We defined a false positive in this paper as warnings generated by SCA tools that do not align
with the defined standards (or the tools’ official documentation, if no defined standards exist).
Therefore, any warning that deviates from defined standards is excluded and classified as a
false positive. However, this approach does not incorporate the preferences of individual
software development practitioners or software project teams. For example, there are two
specific rules: “An open curly brace should be located at the beginning of a line” and “An open
curly brace should be located at the end of a line” in SonarQube which are contradicting, and
only the second rule aligns with the established standard. However, there may be a software
engineer or team that prefers the first style, where they put curly braces at the start of the code
line, and, according to established standards, this is a wrong practice. Therefore, we used
multiple standards to ensure consistency. We identified most of the standards from SCA tools’
documentation and standards popular in existing studies. Therefore, these standards are popular
in the industry and well-defined. Furthermore, we did not find any conflicting standards. To
label SCA warnings, we need a well-defined scientific basis, and we identified that following
the defined standards for labelling warnings will be appropriate. Therefore, we used the defined
standards to label SCA warnings in our analysis to ensure consistency.
External Validity: For this study, two source code datasets were analysed using PMD and
SonarQube. Only the rules of the SCA tools that generated warnings were examined further.
As a result, no additional analysis was conducted on the rules that did not produce warnings.
Therefore, the results generated from this study might not be generalizable to false positives
generated by other SCA tools. However, most rules generated code quality alarms for the
source code, reducing threats. Another threat to the external validity of this study is that only
two source code datasets were used, which may not be adequate to generalise the results to
other datasets. For instance, the “CommentRequired” PMD rule produced the highest number
of warnings for the source code examined. Nevertheless, this rule may not generate the most
warnings for another source code dataset. However, as both code datasets exhibited the same
pattern, this threat remains minimal. Finally, as explained in Section 4.1 (RQ1), SCA tool’s
rules change over time. Some new rules may be introduced, while some existing rules may be
removed. Consequently, the results of this study may diverge from outcomes for future versions
of the SCA tools studied. However, we utilised the latest version of the SCA tool at the time
during the study to minimise this threat.

7 Summary and Future Work
Summary: In this study, we identified several approaches that were taken to create datasets,
including real-world program vulnerability datasets and artificially synthesised vulnerability
datasets. In addition, other than these two types of vulnerability datasets, manually annotated
datasets are also used to train ML models. Moreover, we identified from existing studied that
there are no existing studies that comprehensively study SCA tools’ rules, source code quality

                                                36
standards applicable for these rules, rules that are prone to false positives, reasons for rules
generating false positives and gaps between source code quality standards and descriptions of
SCA tools’ rules. To fill the gaps identified in existing studies, we created four manually
labelled datasets as described in Section 2. Additionally, four datasets were manually annotated
using established standards, and any discrepancies between the rules of the SCA tool and the
established standards were noted.
According to the outcomes generated for RQ1, SCA tools have defined a large number of rules;
however, not all the rules generated warnings for our datasets. PMD generated warnings for
221 rules out of 271, and SonarQube generated warnings for 359 rules out of 632 rules.
Additionally, the majority of the rules which generated warnings have established standards,
and only a small number (two) of rules are against established standards. Among the rules that
generated warnings, we identified 178 with established standards and 41 without standards for
PMD. Moreover, in SonarQube, 290 rules had defined standards, and 67 did not, among the
rules that generated warnings for two source code datasets. Moreover, among the established
standards, the three most used standards are the JDK documentation, the SEI website and the
Clean Code book. Tool Developers have classified the rules and presented them on their official
websites. We identified that PMD and SonarQube have reported warnings for our datasets
covering almost all categories.
From RQ2, we identified the SCA tools’ rules that generated false positive warnings, where we
observed that PMD mostly generated false positive warnings for the “CommentRequired” rule
for both source code datasets, where out of the false positives generated, 72.45% and 64% were
generated by this rule in Dataset 1 and Dataset 2, respectively. Moreover, SonarQube generated
the majority of false-positive warnings for the “Magic number should not be used” rule across
the two datasets, accounting for 83.33% and 30% of all false-positive warnings in Dataset 3
and Dataset 4, respectively. Overall, we identified that only few rules generated false positive
warnings.
RQ3 identified the reason for generating false positive warnings, where the majority of false
positive warnings may not be necessary based on established standards. Therefore, the
Practitioner Community can safely ignore these warnings without compromising the quality of
the source code. SonarQube generated false positive warnings mostly for the “Stack overflow”
dataset because even without following the warning, the readability of the code was not
reduced. Therefore, following the warning is not necessary. Moreover, SonarQube generated
false positives for the Apache Tomcat code dataset because SonarQube has not identified code
patterns correctly and generated wrong suggestions.
RQ4 identified gaps between warnings of selected SCA tools and established standards. We
observed that the most frequent gap was the unavailability of standards for the rules of the SCA
tools. Another gap was that the rules do not adhere to established standards.
To improve SCA tools and source code quality, Tool Developers can follow standards to define
rules of SCA tools and mention the standards along with the documentation. According to the
established standards, rules which generate false positive warnings were identified in this study
and Tool Developers can fix these rules that are frequently prone to false positives by reducing
the causes of false positives when developing rules for SCA tools. Consequently, after these
modifications, gaps in the description of SCA tools’ rules and established code quality
standards will be settled.

                                               37
To extend the effort taken by the Tool Developers, the Practitioner Community also needs to
follow established standards when writing source code and fixing SCA warnings. They can
disable the SCA tool’s rules with no established standards and rules that do not comply with
such standards. However, even after disabling these rules, there can still be some rules that are
prone to false positives, and they may give more attention to these rules. Moreover, source code
quality can be improved by disabling rules that disagree with established standards or
thoroughly analysing warnings generated by these rules. Likewise, the Practitioner Community
can reduce common patterns of causes for generating false positives, if possible, while
developing software. Conversely, the Practitioner Community should also understand and be
educated the existence of gaps between established standards and SCA tools’ rules descriptions,
aware that it may be impossible to fix all the warnings generated by SCA tools.
To continue to identify the rules with the above-mentioned issues, the Research Community
should conduct more comprehensive studies on SCA rules and established standards, mainly
for other widely used SCA tools and rules we haven’t considered in this study. In this study, we
have only considered the rules which generated warnings for our two source code datasets.
Therefore, there are some missing rules that we have not studied and missing rules that may be
prone to false positives. To identify these rules, the Research Community should study these
rules and define standards to fill the gap if there is a lack of standards. Furthermore, to identify
more causes of generating false positives, the Research Community should study this area and
identify how to prevent those causes from both the Tool Developers' and the Practitioner
Community's perspectives. However, gaps between the description of SCA tools’ rules and
established code quality standards may arise, given our failure to find certain standards.
Therefore, the Research Community should study these gaps to find any missing standards.
Additionally, they should define standards for the SCA tool’s rules that do not have established
standards.


Future Work: In this study, we manually labelled only four sample datasets from four larger
datasets. The next step is to utilise ML approaches to train the sample datasets and apply the
best-performing models to predict the labels for the entire dataset [76]. This will allow us to
contribute the four larger datasets to the software engineering community. Our study was
conducted for PMD and SonarQube using four sample datasets. However, there are several
other SCA tools widely used in the software engineering community. Therefore, it would be
beneficial to expand this study to include some of the other frequently used SCA tools. In
addition, our study focused only on rules that generated warnings for our two source code
datasets. Thus, we plan to conduct a broader study to identify all the rules available in PMD
and SonarQube. Expanding this study to include additional rules will enhance our ability to
identify more causes of false positives at the individual rule level and discover more existing
standards. Moreover, there are constants in the rules. For example, the PMD rule
“ExcessiveParameterList” has a constant to define the maximum number of allowed
parameters for a Java method. However, established standards do not define this number.
Therefore, comprehensively studying the constant values in the rules of SCA tools is a potential
significant contribution to the Practitioner Community, Tool Developers, and Research
Community. Furthermore, we identified a threat to the validity of the outcomes of this study in
Section 6, that there was a possibility of inter-dependencies among multiple SCA warnings


                                                38
within the same class, so that resolving one SCA warning can automatically fix or create other
warnings. This issue is to be considered in future work.

8 Data Availability
Our replication package is accessible online at https://doi.org/10.5281/zenodo.15770053,
thereby facilitating the reproducibility and transparency of this research. Furthermore, the
online repository comprises datasets, relevant information on rules and standards, and
appendices.

CRediT authorship contribution statement
Lakmal Deshapriya: Conceptualisation, Data curation, Methodology, Writing-Original draft
preparation. Sherlock A. Licorish: Conceptualisation, Data curation, Supervision, Writing-
Reviewing and Editing, Statistics Validation. Brendon J. Woodford: Data curation,
Supervision, Writing-Reviewing and Editing.

9 References
[ ]       L. Marks, Y. Zou, and A. E. Hassan, “Studying the fix-time for bugs in large open
          source projects,” in Proceedings of the 7th International Conference on Predictive
          Models in Software Engineering, 2011, pp. 1-8.
[ ]       S. Meldrum, S. A. Licorish, C. A. Owen, and B. T. R. Savarimuthu, “Understanding
          stack overflow code quality: A recommendation of caution,” Science of Computer
          Programming, vol. 199, pp. 102516, 2020.
[ ]       V. R. L. de Mendonca, C. L. Rodrigues, F. A. A. de MN Soares, and A. M. R.
          Vincenzi, “Static analysis techniques and tools: A systematic mapping study,” 2013.
[ ]       F. Cheirdari, and G. Karabatis, “Analyzing False Positive Source Code Vulnerabilities
          Using Static Analysis Tools,” in 2018 IEEE International Conference on Big Data
          (Big Data), 2018, pp. 4782-4788.
[ ]       J. Park, I. Lim, and S. Ryu, “Battles with false positives in static analysis of
          JavaScript web applications in the wild,” in 2016 IEEE/ACM 38th International
          Conference on Software Engineering Companion (ICSE-C), 2016, pp. 61-70.
[ ]       R. Telang, and S. Wattal, “An empirical analysis of the impact of software
          vulnerability announcements on firm stock price,” IEEE Transactions on Software
          engineering, vol. 33, no. 8, pp. 544-557, 2007.
[ ]       D. Leffingwell, and D. Widrig, Managing software requirements: a unified approach:
          Addison-Wesley Professional, 2000.
[ ]       S. H. Kan, Metrics and models in software quality engineering: Addison-Wesley
          Professional, 2003.
[ ]       A. Tanwar, H. Manikandan, K. Sundaresan, P. Ganesan, S. K. Chandrasekaran, and S.
          Ravi, “Assessing Validity of Static Analysis Warnings using Ensemble Learning,”
          arXiv preprint arXiv:2104.11593, 2021.
[     ]   P. Hegedus, and R. Ferenc, “Static Code Analysis Alarms Filtering Reloaded: A New
          Real-World Dataset and its ML-Based Utilization,” IEEE ACCESS, vol. 10, pp.
          55090-55101, 2022.
[     ]   R. Croft, M. A. Babar, and M. M. Kholoosi, “Data quality for software vulnerability
          datasets,” in 2023 IEEE/ACM 45th International Conference on Software Engineering
          (ICSE), 2023, pp. 121-133.
[     ]   T. Boland, and P. E. Black, “Juliet 1. 1 C/C++ and java test suite,” Computer, vol. 45,
          no. 10, pp. 88-90, 2012.

                                                39
[   ]   Y. Lin, Y. Li, M. Gu, H. Sun, Q. Yue, J. Hu, C. Cao, and Y. Zhang, “Vulnerability
        dataset construction methods applied to vulnerability detection: A survey,” in 2022
        52nd Annual IEEE/IFIP International Conference on Dependable Systems and
        Networks Workshops (DSN-W), 2022, pp. 141-146.
[   ]   H. Li, Y. Hao, Y. Zhai, and Z. Qian, “Assisting static analysis with large language
        models: A chatgpt experiment,” in Proceedings of the 31st ACM Joint European
        Software Engineering Conference and Symposium on the Foundations of Software
        Engineering, 2023, pp. 2107-2111.
[   ]   Y. Tan, and J. Tian, “A Method for Processing Static Analysis Alarms Based on Deep
        Learning,” Applied Sciences, vol. 14, no. 13, pp. 5542, 2024.
[   ]   D. H. Nguyen, A. Seo, N. P. Nnamdi, and Y. Son, “False Alarm Reduction Method for
        Weakness Static Analysis Using BERT Model,” Applied Sciences, vol. 13, no. 6, pp.
        3502, 2023.
[   ]   L. Deshapriya, S. Licorish, and B. Woodford, "Taking a Closer Look at Warnings
        Generated by PMD and SonarQube, their Rules and Compliance to Established
        Coding Standards - Replication Package," Zenodo, 2025.
[   ]   Y. Zheng, S. Pujar, B. Lewis, L. Buratti, E. Epstein, B. Yang, J. Laredo, A. Morari,
        and Z. Su, “D2A: A Dataset Built for AI-Based Vulnerability Detection Methods
        Using Differential Analysis,” in Proceedings - International Conference on Software
        Engineering, 2021, pp. 111-120.
[   ]   L. Cabral, B. Miranda, I. Lima, and M. d'Amorim, “RVprio: A tool for prioritizing
        runtime verification violations,” Software Testing, Verification and Reliability, vol. 32,
        no. 5, pp. e1813, 2022.
[   ]   T. Aladics, P. Hegedűs, and R. Ferenc, “A Vulnerability Introducing Commit Dataset
        for Java: An Improved SZZ based Approach,” 2022.
[   ]   M. Borg, O. Svensson, K. Berg, and D. Hansson, “Szz unleashed: an open
        implementation of the szz algorithm-featuring example usage in a study of just-in-
        time bug prediction for the jenkins project,” in Proceedings of the 3rd ACM
        SIGSOFT International Workshop on Machine Learning Techniques for Software
        Quality Evaluation, 2019, pp. 7-12.
[   ]   J. D. Pereira, J. H. Antunes, and M. Vieira, “A Software Vulnerability Dataset of
        Large Open Source C/C++ Projects,” in Proceedings of IEEE Pacific Rim
        International Symposium on Dependable Computing, PRDC, 2022, pp. 152-163.
[   ]   Y. Chen, Z. Ding, L. Alowain, X. Chen, and D. Wagner, “DiverseVul: A New
        Vulnerable Source Code Dataset for Deep Learning Based Vulnerability Detection,”
        in ACM International Conference Proceeding Series, 2023, pp. 654-668.
[   ]   X. Wang, R. Hu, C. Gao, X.-C. Wen, Y. Chen, and Q. Liao, “ReposVul: A Repository-
        Level High-Quality Vulnerability Dataset,” in Proceedings of the 2024 IEEE/ACM
        46th International Conference on Software Engineering: Companion Proceedings,
        2024, pp. 472-483.
[   ]   R. Just, D. Jalali, and M. D. Ernst, “Defects4J: A database of existing faults to enable
        controlled testing studies for Java programs,” in Proceedings of the 2014 international
        symposium on software testing and analysis, 2014, pp. 437-440.
[   ]   Y. Yang, M. Wen, X. Gao, Y. Zhang, and H. Sun, “Reducing false positives of static
        bug detectors through code representation learning,” in 2024 IEEE International
        Conference on Software Analysis, Evolution and Reengineering (SANER), 2024, pp.
        681-692.
[   ]   K. Liu, D. Kim, T. F. Bissyandé, S. Yoo, and Y. Le Traon, “Mining Fix Patterns for
        FindBugs Violations,” IEEE TRANSACTIONS ON SOFTWARE ENGINEERING, vol.
        47, no. 1, pp. 165-188, JAN 1, 2021.

                                               40
[   ]   S. Yerramreddy, A. Mordahl, U. Koc, S. Y. Wei, J. S. Foster, M. Carpuat, and A. A.
        Porter, “An empirical assessment of machine learning approaches for triaging reports
        of static analysis tools,” EMPIRICAL SOFTWARE ENGINEERING, vol. 28, no. 2,
        MAR, 2023.
[   ]   A. Nagaraj, B. Sinha, M. Sood, Y. Mathur, S. Gupta, and D. Sitaram, “Learning
        Algorithms in Static Analysis of Web Applications,” arXiv preprint
        arXiv:2210.07465, 2022.
[   ]   A. Kharkar, R. Z. Moghaddam, M. Jin, X. Liu, X. Shi, C. Clement, and N.
        Sundaresan, “Learning to Reduce False Positives in Analytic Bug Detectors,” in
        Proceedings - International Conference on Software Engineering, 2022, pp. 1307-
        1316.
[   ]   T. T. Vu, and H. D. Vo, “Using Multiple Code Representations to Prioritize Static
        Analysis Warnings,” in Proceedings - International Conference on Knowledge and
        Systems Engineering, KSE, 2022.
[   ]   K.-T. Ngo, D.-T. Do, T.-T. Nguyen, and H. D. Vo, “Ranking warnings of static
        analysis tools using representation learning,” in 2021 28th Asia-Pacific Software
        Engineering Conference (APSEC), 2021, pp. 327-337.
[   ]   U. Koc, S. Wei, J. S. Foster, M. Carpuat, and A. A. Porter, “An empirical assessment
        of machine learning approaches for triaging reports of a Java static analysis tool,” in
        Proceedings - 2019 IEEE 12th International Conference on Software Testing,
        Verification and Validation, ICST 2019, 2019, pp. 288-299.
[   ]   S. Lee, S. Hong, J. Yi, T. Kim, C. J. Kim, S. Yoo, and Ieee, “Classifying False Positive
        Static Checker Alarms In Continuous Integration Using Convolutional Neural
        Networks,” in 2019 IEEE 12TH CONFERENCE ON SOFTWARE TESTING,
        VALIDATION AND VERIFICATION (ICST 2019), 2019, pp. 391-401.
[   ]   A. Fatima, S. Bibi, and R. Hanif, “Comparative study on static code analysis tools for
        c/c++,” in 2018 15th International Bhurban Conference on Applied Sciences and
        Technology (IBCAST), 2018, pp. 465-469.
[   ]   R. Ramler, M. Moser, and J. Pichler, “Automated static analysis of unit test code,” in
        2016 IEEE 23rd International Conference on Software Analysis, Evolution, and
        Reengineering (SANER), 2016, pp. 25-28.
[   ]   Q. Ashfaq, R. Khan, and S. Farooq, “A comparative analysis of static code analysis
        tools that check java code adherence to java coding standards,” in 2019 2nd
        international conference on communication, computing and digital systems (C-
        CODE), 2019, pp. 98-103.
[   ]   J. Novak, and A. Krajnc, “Taxonomy of static code analysis tools,” in The 33rd
        international convention MIPRO, 2010, pp. 418-422.
[   ]   V. Lenarduzzi, F. Pecorelli, N. Saarimaki, S. Lujan, and F. Palomba, “A critical
        comparison on six static analysis tools: Detection, agreement, and precision,” Journal
        of Systems and Software, vol. 198, pp. 111575, 2023.
[   ]   W. Charoenwet, P. Thongtanunam, V.-T. Pham, and C. Treude, “An empirical study of
        static analysis tools for secure code review,” in Proceedings of the 33rd ACM
        SIGSOFT International Symposium on Software Testing and Analysis, 2024, pp. 691-
        703.
[   ]   O. S. Ozturk, E. Ekmekcioglu, O. Cetin, B. Arief, J. Hernandez-Castro, and Acm,
        “New Tricks to Old Codes: Can AI Chatbots Replace Static Code Analysis Tools?,” in
        PROCEEDINGS OF THE 2023 EUROPEAN INTERDISCIPLINARY
        CYBERSECURITY CONFERENCE, EICC 2023, 2023, pp. 13-18.
[   ]   M. Alqaradaghi, and T. Kozsik, “Comprehensive Evaluation of Static Analysis Tools
        for Their Performance in Finding Vulnerabilities in Java Code,” IEEE Access, 2024.

                                              41
[   ]   A. Bánsághi, B. G. Ézsiás, A. Kovács, and A. Tátrai, “Source code scanners in
        software quality management and connections to international standards,” in Annales
        Univ. Sci. Budapest. Sect. Comput, 2012, pp. 81-92.
[   ]   S. Forouzani, Y. K. Chiam, and S. Forouzani, “Method for assessing software quality
        using source code analysis,” in Proceedings of the Fifth International Conference on
        Network, Communication and Computing, 2016, pp. 166-170.
[   ]   Y. Wang, B. Zheng, and H. Huang, “Complying with Coding Standards or Retaining
        Programming Style: A Quality Outlook at Source Code Level,” J. Softw. Eng. Appl.,
        vol. 1, no. 1, pp. 88-91, 2008.
[   ]   C. Boogerd, and L. Moonen, “Assessing the value of coding standards: An empirical
        study,” in 2008 IEEE International conference on software maintenance, 2008, pp.
        277-286.
[   ]   S. Tandon, V. Kumar, and V. Singh, “Empirical evaluation of code smells in open-
        source software (OSS) using Best Worst Method (BWM) and TOPSIS approach,”
        International Journal of Quality & Reliability Management, vol. 39, no. 3, pp. 815-
        835, 2022.
[   ]   V. Piantadosi, S. Scalabrino, and R. Oliveto, “Fixing of security vulnerabilities in
        open source projects: A case study of apache http server and apache tomcat,” in 2019
        12th IEEE Conference on software testing, validation and verification (ICST), 2019,
        pp. 68-78.
[   ]   S. Kaur, and S. Singh, “Prediction Model to Investigate Influence of Code Smells on
        Metrics in Apache Tomcat,” International Journal of Advanced Research in Computer
        Science, vol. 8, no. 5, 2017.
[   ]   S. Ganesh, F. Palma, and T. Olsson, “Are source code metrics “Good Enough” in
        predicting security vulnerabilities?,” Data, vol. 7, no. 9, pp. 127, 2022.
[   ]   S. Ganesh, "Predicting security vulnerabilities using software code metrics," 2021.
[   ]   T.-Y. Chong, V. Anu, and K. Z. Sultana, “Using software metrics for predicting
        vulnerable code-components: A study on java and python open source projects,” in
        2019 ieee international conference on computational science and engineering (cse)
        and ieee international conference on embedded and ubiquitous computing (euc), 2019,
        pp. 98-103.
[   ]   S. A. Licorish, and M. Wagner, “Combining gin and pmd for code improvements,” in
        Proceedings of the Genetic and Evolutionary Computation Conference Companion,
        2022, pp. 790-793.
[   ]   S. A. Licorish, and T. Nishatharan, “Contextual profiling of stack overflow java code
        security vulnerabilities initial insights from a pilot study,” in 2021 IEEE 21st
        International Conference on Software Quality, Reliability and Security Companion
        (QRS-C), 2021, pp. 1060-1068.
[   ]   S. A. Licorish, and M. Wagner, “Dissecting copy/delete/replace/swap mutations:
        Insights from a gin case study,” in Proceedings of the Genetic and Evolutionary
        Computation Conference Companion, 2022, pp. 1940-1945.
[   ]   M. Idris, I. Syarif, and I. Winarno, “Development of vulnerable web application based
        on OWASP API security risks,” in 2021 International Electronics Symposium (IES),
        2021, pp. 190-194.
[   ]   K. A. Sedek, N. Osman, M. N. Osman, and J. H. Kamaruzaman, “Developing a
        Secure Web Application Using OWASP Guidelines,” Comput. Inf. Sci., vol. 2, no. 4,
        pp. 137-143, 2009.
[   ]   K. Ljung, and J. Gonzalez-Huerta, ““to clean code or not to clean code” a survey
        among practitioners,” in International Conference on Product-Focused Software
        Process Improvement, 2022, pp. 298-315.

                                             42
[   ]   P. Becker, L. A. Olsina Santos, and M. F. Papa, “Strategy for improving source code
        compliance to a style guide,” in XXVIII Congreso Argentino de Ciencias de la
        Computación (CACIC)(La Rioja, 3 al 6 de octubre de 2022), 2023.
[   ]   P. Becker, L. Olsina, and M. F. Papa, “Approach to Improving Java Source Code
        Considering Non-compliance with a Java Style Guide,” in Argentine Congress of
        Computer Science, 2022, pp. 123-139.
[   ]   A. Honkaranta, T. Leppänen, and A. Costin, “Towards practical cybersecurity
        mapping of stride and cwe—a multi-perspective approach,” in 2021 29th Conference
        of Open Innovations Association (FRUCT), 2021, pp. 150-159.
[   ]   S. Simonetto, and P. Bosch, “Comprehensive threat analysis and systematic mapping
        of CVEs to MITRE framework,” in 1st International Conference on Natural Language
        Processing and Artificial Intelligence for Cyber Security, NLPAICS 2024, 2024.
[   ]   V. Arnaoudova, M. Di Penta, and G. Antoniol, “Linguistic antipatterns: What they are
        and how developers perceive them,” Empirical Software Engineering, vol. 21, pp.
        104-158, 2016.
[   ]   L. Murphy, T. Alliyu, A. Macvean, M. B. Kery, and B. A. Myers, “Preliminary
        analysis of REST API style guidelines,” Ann Arbor, vol. 1001, no. 48109, pp. 4, 2017.
[   ]   J. Balayla, "Gaussian Distribution, Confidence Intervals, Binomial (Wald) Proportion,
        Wilson Score Interval and Delta Theorem," Theorems on the Prevalence Threshold
        and the Geometry of Screening Curves: A Bayesian Approach to Clinical Decision-
        Making, pp. 173-185: Springer, 2024.
[   ]   E. Zolduoarrati, S. A. Licorish, and N. Stanger, “Impact of individualism and
        collectivism cultural profiles on the behaviour of software developers: A study of
        stack overflow,” Journal of Systems and Software, vol. 192, pp. 111427, 2022.
[   ]   F. Faul, E. Erdfelder, A.-G. Lang, and A. Buchner, “G* Power 3: A flexible statistical
        power analysis program for the social, behavioral, and biomedical sciences,”
        Behavior research methods, vol. 39, no. 2, pp. 175-191, 2007.
[   ]   W. G. Cochran, Sampling techniques: john wiley & sons, 1977.
[   ]   R. C. Martin, Clean Code: A Handbook of Agile Software Craftsmanship: Prentice
        Hall PTR, 2008.
[   ]   E. Tempero, and P. Ralph, “A framework for defining coupling metrics,” Science of
        Computer Programming, vol. 166, pp. 214-230, 2018.
[   ]   K. A. Neuendorf, The content analysis guidebook: sage, 2017.
[   ]   A. Jordan, D. Kunkel, J. Manganello, and M. Fishbein, Media messages and public
        health: New York: Routledge, 2009.
[   ]   E. Zolduoarrati, S. A. Licorish, and N. Stanger, “Harmonising contributions:
        exploring diversity in software engineering through CQA mining on stack overflow,”
        ACM transactions on software engineering and methodology, vol. 33, no. 7, pp. 1-54,
        2024.
[   ]   J. Cohen, “A coefficient of agreement for nominal scales,” Educational and
        psychological measurement, vol. 20, no. 1, pp. 37-46, 1960.
[   ]   J. R. Landis, and G. G. Koch, “The measurement of observer agreement for
        categorical data,” biometrics, pp. 159-174, 1977.
[   ]   S. R. Addula, and G. S. Sajja, "Automated machine learning to streamline data-driven
        industrial application development." pp. 1-4.




                                              43
Appendices
Appendix A                     Number of rules for standards in PMD
Standards                                                                                                                    Number
                                                                                                                             of Rules
JDK Doc                                                                                                                      87
https://wiki.sei.cmu.edu                                                                                                     25
Book - Clean code                                                                                                            24
Book - Effective Java by Joshua Bloch                                                                                        21
https://cwe.mitre.org                                                                                                        13
Book - Refactoring: Improving the Design of Existing Code                                                                    13
Google Java Coding Style Guide                                                                                               11
SOLID principles                                                                                                             2
https://owasp.org                                                                                                            1
Michele Lanza and Radu Marinescu. Object-Oriented Metrics in Practice: Using Software Metrics to Characterize, Evaluate, and 1
Improve the Design of Object-Oriented Systems. Springer, Berlin, 1 edition, October 2006. Page 80
Paper - Linguistic Antipatterns - What They Are and How Developers Perceive Them                                             1
Principle of Least Astonishment                                                                                              1


Appendix B                     Number of rules for standards in SonarQube
Standards                                                                                                         Number of Rules
JDK Doc                                                                                                           120
https://wiki.sei.cmu.edu                                                                                          73
https://cwe.mitre.org                                                                                             32
Google Java Coding Style Guide                                                                                    32
Book - Effective Java by Joshua Bloch                                                                             22
Book - Clean Code                                                                                                 15
Book - Mastering Regular Expressions by Jeffrey Friedl                                                            11
Book - Refactoring: Improving the Design of Existing Code                                                         8
SOLID principles                                                                                                  5
https://owasp.org                                                                                                 2
transitive property of equality                                                                                   1


Appendix C                     PMD rules prone to false positives
Rule                                                         FP Count               Sample Count      FP Percentage
                                                             dataset1      dataset2 dataset1 dataset2 dataset1      dataset2
CommentRequired                                              71            46       105      52       67.62%        88.46%
LawOfDemeter                                                 9             7        10       45       90.00%        15.56%
UseUtilityClass                                              8             0        12       0        66.67%        0.00%
SingletonClassReturningNewInstance                           1             1        1        1        100.00%       100.00%
UnusedAssignment                                             1             0        2        0        50.00%        0.00%
AvoidArrayLoops                                              1             0        1        0        100.00%       0.00%
CloneMethodMustBePublic                                      1             0        1        0        100.00%       0.00%
DoNotUseThreads                                              1             0        1        0        100.00%       0.00%
DontUseFloatTypeForLoopIndices                               1             0        1        0        100.00%       0.00%
GuardLogStatement                                            1             0        1        0        100.00%       0.00%
JUnit4TestShouldUseAfterAnnotation                           1             0        1        0        100.00%       0.00%
JUnit4TestShouldUseTestAnnotation                            1             0        1        0        100.00%       0.00%
SingularField                                                1             0        1        0        100.00%       0.00%
UselessParentheses                                           0             2        0        3        0.00%         66.67%
AvoidDeeplyNestedIfStmts                                     0             1        0        1        0.00%         100.00%
AvoidThrowingNewInstanceOfSameException                      0             1        0        1        0.00%         100.00%
CloneMethodMustImplementCloneable                            0             1        0        1        0.00%         100.00%
DataClass                                                    0             1        0        1        0.00%         100.00%
DetachedTestCase                                             0             1        0        1        0.00%         100.00%
ImplicitSwitchFallThrough                                    0             1        0        1        0.00%         100.00%
NonThreadSafeSingleton                                       0             1        0        1        0.00%         100.00%
ProperLogger                                                 0             1        0        1        0.00%         100.00%
TestClassWithoutTestCases                                    0             1        0        1        0.00%         100.00%
UnnecessaryLocalBeforeReturn                                 0             1        0        1        0.00%         100.00%
CloseResource                                                0             2        0        2        0.00%         100.00%
JUnitTestsShouldIncludeAssert                                0             4        0        4        0.00%         100.00%
Total FP                                                     98            72




                                                                 44
Appendix D                       SonarQube rules prone to false positives
Rule code Rule                                                                         FP Count         Sample Count      FP Percentage

                                                                                       dataset3 dataset4 dataset3 dataset4 dataset3 dataset4

java:S109 Magic numbers should not be used                                              25     13       44       21       56.82% 61.90%
java:S1451 Track lack of copyright and license headers                                  0      9        0        9        0.00% 100.00%
java:S1120 Source code should be indented consistently                                  2      6        105      252      1.90% 2.38%
java:S2039 Member variable visibility should be specified                               0      6        0        6        0.00% 100.00%
java:S2097 equals(Object obj) should test the argument's type                           1      1        1        1        100.00% 100.00%
java:S5738 @Deprecated code marked for removal should never be used                     0      1        0        1        0.00% 100.00%
java:S3012 Arrays and lists should not be copied using loops                            0      1        0        1        0.00% 100.00%
java:S1258 Classes and enums with private members should have a constructor             0      1        0        1        0.00% 100.00%
java:S1182 Classes that override "clone" should be "Cloneable" and call "super.clone()" 0      1        0        1        0.00% 100.00%
java:S2440 Classes with only "static" methods should not be instantiated                0      1        0        1        0.00% 100.00%
           Close curly brace and the next "else", "catch" and "finally" keywords should
java:S1107 be located on the same line                                                  0      1        0        1        0.00% 100.00%
java:S1201 equals method overrides should accept "Object" parameters                    0      1        0        1        0.00% 100.00%
java:S1994 for loop increment clauses should modify the loops' counters                 0      1        0        1        0.00% 100.00%
java:S1696 NullPointerException should not be caught                                    0      1        0        1        0.00% 100.00%
java:S1820 Classes should not have too many fields                                      1      0        1        0        100.00% 0.00%
java:S2444 Lazy initialization of "static" fields should be "synchronized"              1      0        1        0        100.00% 0.00%
Total FP                                                                                30     44




                                                                     45
