                                         Code Review as Decision-Making - Building a
                                          Cognitive Model from the Questions Asked
                                                    During Code Review

                                             Lo Gullstrand Heander 1*, Emma Söderberg                         1
                                                                                                                   and
                                                           Christofer Rydenfält 1
arXiv:2507.09637v1 [cs.SE] 13 Jul 2025




                                                             1 Lund University, Lund, Sweden.




                                              *Corresponding author(s). E-mail(s): lo.heander@cs.lth.se;
                                                  Contributing authors: emma.soderberg@cs.lth.se;
                                                         christofer.rydenfalt@design.lth.se;


                                                                            Abstract
                                         Code review is a well-established and valued practice in the software engineer-
                                         ing community contributing to both code quality and interpersonal benefits.
                                         However, there are challenges in both tools and processes that give rise to mis-
                                         alignments and frustrations. Recent research seeks to address this by automating
                                         code review entirely, but we believe that this risks losing the majority of the
                                         interpersonal benefits such as knowledge transfer and shared ownership.
                                         We believe that by better understanding the cognitive processes involved in code
                                         review, it would be possible to improve tool support, with out without AI, and
                                         make code review both more efficient, more enjoyable, while increasing or main-
                                         taining all of its benefits. In this paper, we conduct an ethnographic think-aloud
                                         study involving 10 participants and 34 code reviews. We build a cognitive model
                                         of code review bottom up through thematic, statistical, temporal, and sequential
                                         analysis of the transcribed material. Through the data, the similarities between
                                         the cognitive process in code review and decision-making processes, especially
                                         recognition-primed decision-making, become apparent.
                                         The result is the Code Review as Decision-Making (CRDM) model that shows
                                         how the developers move through two phases during the code review; first an
                                         orientation phase to establish context and rationale and then an analytical phase
                                         to understand, assess, and plan the rest of the review. Throughout the process
                                         several decisions must be taken, on writing comments, finding more information,
                                         voting, running the code locally, verifying continuous integration results, etc.
                                         Analysis software and process-coded data publicly available at:
                                         https://doi.org/10.5281/zenodo.15758266


                                                                                 1
        Keywords: Code Review, Human-Computer Interaction, Cognitive Processes,
        Ethnography, Decision-Making




1 Introduction
Code review is a well-established activity in modern software development valued for
both quality assurance and interpersonal benefits (Bacchelli and Bird, 2013; Sadowski
et al., 2018). On a global scale, with more than 28 million software developers (Statis-
tia, 2025) spending 10%-20% of their working time reviewing code (Sadowski et al.,
2018; Bosu and Carver, 2013), more than 22-44 million hours are spent on code
reviews daily. However, despite the importance of code review, there are significant
misalignments between the tools used and the goals and actions of software develop-
ers, which reduces efficiency and adds frustration (Söderberg et al., 2022). The code
review process is also challenging for many teams with a range of common antipat-
terns (Chouchen et al., 2021). Improving code review tools and processes has huge
potential benefits for the software engineering community. In addition to saving time
on the code review itself, the 2023 DORA State of Devops industry report finds that
teams with more efficient code review have up to 50% higher software development
throughput overall (DORA, 2023).
    However, despite the potential benefits of improvements, the tools used for code
review today are very similar to the first tools introduced in the early 1990s, for exam-
ple, the ICICLE tool (Brothers et al., 1990). Similarly to today’s code review tools,
such as GitHub1 or Gerrit2 , ICICLE was centered around a textual diff view where
comments can be added by humans or by automated analysis. During the same time,
we have seen huge developments in tools for writing, navigating, and understanding
software (Bird et al., 2023). We should not leave code review behind. With the recent
increase in AI assistance capabilities, there has been a growing interest in how to
utilize AI-based assistance in software development tools (DORA, 2024). This trend
also extends to AI-powered improvements in code review, specifically automated code
review has received a lot of attention in recent years. For example, Lu et al. (2023)
introduced LLaMA-Reviewer to automate the code review task. Yu et al. (2024) pre-
sented Carllm for improved precision and clarity in automated code review. Tang et al.
(2024) proposed CodeAgent, an approach in which multiple agents collaborate to find
code quality issues. Google explored how to automate code review in their DIDACT
project by training ML models on each of the sequential steps (Froemmgen et al.,
2024). There is also recent research on user experience improvements (Heander et al.,
2024), AI assistance frameworks (Unterkalmsteiner et al., 2024; Heander et al., 2025),
and innovative visualizations (Krause-Glau et al., 2024).
    Although the focus on automated code review is interesting, several of the benefits
of code review, such as knowledge transfer and shared code ownership, are interper-
sonal and risk being lost if the activity is automated (Heander et al., 2025). To improve

 1
     https://github.com/
 2
     https://www.gerritcodereview.com/



                                              2
Fig. 1 Illustration of steps and questions during code review. First, the developer orients themselves
on the context of the code review, next asks how a part of the code change works, moves on to compre-
hending the code, and finally have to make a decision on how to proceed. Considering social effects,
performance, safety, etc., should they Accept, Reject, Comment, or Search for more information. The
reviewer iterates and looks at more code changes before reaching a final decision. Takeaway: Code
review starts with an orientation phase, followed by an iterative comprehending-assessing-decision
phase. Comprehending the code change is not the end goal, but rather a prerequisite for deciding
how to handle the review.


code review processes and tools while preserving all the important benefits it is impor-
tant to understand the activity and its challenges well. However, while the practical
process of code review is well researched and described (Sadowski et al., 2018; Davila
and Nunes, 2021), there are few studies on the cognitive processes during code review.
Gonçalves et al. (2025) investigate how developers form and use their understanding
of the changed code under review, building a model for code review comprehension .
This is interesting work contributing to the understanding of code review, but in this
paper we want to look at a wider scope beyond comprehending the changed code and
study the cognitive process of the code review activity as whole including choosing a
review, writing comments, voting, looking for more information, etc.
    Building a theoretical model of cognitive processes in code review grounded in
interviews and observations can facilitate improvements in code review tools and pro-
cesses in several ways. By analyzing existing tools to see which parts of the cognitive
process they facilitate or hinder, by using the model to reason about the effects of
new tool ideas, or by adapting the code review process in your organization to better
match the cognitive process of the developers.


1.1 Research Questions
The goal of this study is to investigate the cognitive process during code review and
how it can be modeled to increase our understanding of code review and guide future
improvements to tools and processes. This leads us to the following main research
question:
RQ1 How can the cognitive process of code review be modeled from a theoretical
perspective?


                                                  3
1.1.1 Supporting Research Questions
Since the cognitive processes of the developers during code review are not directly
observable, we must study their actions and behaviors and use that insight to theoret-
ically model the cognitive process. A basic assumption of this work is that developers
actions when reviewing code are intentional, that is, that they are tied to some meaning
that gives them direction (Dourish, 2001), and that it is this intentional relationship
(Rosenberger and Verbeek, 2015) that needs to be analyzed to understand the cog-
nitive processes involved in code review. In line with the theory of planned behavior,
we also assume that the actual behavior or actions of reviewers are predicted by their
intentions (Ajzen, 1991). Furthermore, we assume that questions asked during code
review gives an indication of the intention of the reviewer when the question is asked,
and thus that they give valuable insights into the reviewers’ intent or cognitive focus
in different parts of the review process.
    To move from a state where you know nothing about the review to a state where
you are ready to vote for accepting or rejecting the code change, many questions
must be answered and different aspects of the code change understood. Similarly to
Letovsky’s study on questions during code comprehension (Letovsky, 1987), in this
paper, we study the explicit and implicit questions asked during a code review in
order to build a theory about the cognitive process of the reviewers. By analyzing the
patterns of which questions are asked, when questions on certain themes occur and
how they relate to each other, the observed data can build the foundation for a theory
of the cognitive process during code review. This gives us the following supporting
research questions:
RQ2 What questions do developers ask during code review?
RQ3 How do the questions asked during code review connect to each other and the
overall code review process?
   To explore these research questions in a context as realistic as possible, we per-
form an ethnographic think-aloud study combined with interviews (Charmaz, 2014;
Williamson, 2006). The study is conducted at the software tools department of a multi-
national software company (Section 3). In total, we observe 34 code reviews by 10
participants and analyze the results using thematic, statistic, and sequential analysis
(Section 4). The analyses form a basis for the construction of a theoretical model of the
cognitive process during code review, interpreted and illustrated in Fig. 1 (Section 5).



1.2 Contributions
The contributions of this research are as follows.
• A theoretical model of the cognitive process of code review closely relating code
  review to decision-making processes (Section 5).
• A thematic and statistical analysis of the questions asked during code review
  (Section 4).
• Suggested directions for future work to apply the theoretical model to improve code
  review processes and tools (Section 6).


                                           4
2 Background and Related Work
The method, interview quotes, analysis, and theory building in this study build upon
an understanding of modern code review practices, challenges, social effects during
code review, the terminology of Gerrit code review tools, as well as cognitive theories
around decision-making processes.


2.1 Code Review in Practice
The term “Modern code review” was popularized by Bacchelli and Bird (2013), where
they defined it as “(1) informal (in contrast to Fagan-style), (2) tool-based, and that (3)
occurs regularly”. Over the years, the properties of modern code review have changed.
Code review has become more formalized, and many teams have checklists and pro-
cesses that, for example, define how to conduct the review, how many approvals are
needed to merge the changed code and how quickly the review is expected to be
done (Gonçalves et al., 2022). Modern code reviews are today even more centered
around the code review tools used. The tools define much of the process, how the code
is analyzed and read during the review, how comments and responses clarify or solve
issues, and finally how the changed code is approved or rejected (Sadowski et al., 2018;
Davila and Nunes, 2021).
    Industry and community practices also place an increasing emphasis on perform-
ing code reviews regularly and quickly. Since code reviews are mandatory in many
teams and projects, high throughput of new features and bug fixes depends on code
reviews being done as soon as possible. The industry report DORA Accelerate State of
Devops finds that teams with faster code reviews have up to 50% higher software deliv-
ery performance overall, marking it as an important area for improvements (DORA,
2023). As a reference, Kudrjavets et al. (2022) analyzed code review times in eight
different large open source projects and found a median time between submission and
acceptance of less than 24 hours. Sadowski et al. (2018) reports a median time of less
than 4 hours between submission and acceptance, and a median of 4 code reviews per
developer per week at Google.
    Code review has been shown to have several benefits. Both for its nominal purpose
of finding and reducing software defects, but also, importantly, for code improvement,
finding alternative solutions, increasing knowledge transfer, building team awareness,
improving the development process, sharing code ownership, avoiding build breaks,
tracking rationale, and assessing teams (Bacchelli and Bird, 2013; Sadowski et al.,
2018). Code review is also an efficient way to spread information, such as best practices
or information about new features, in a software development organization. A recent
study by Dorner et al. (2025) shows that the information spreads to up to 85% of the
participating developers after an average of only 3 code reviews.
    There are also several challenges with modern code review practices and tools.
Because of how current tools are designed, the reviewer needs to navigate between issue
trackers, requirements databases, KANBAN boards, team chats, API documentation,
continuous integration reports, etc., to gather the information needed to complete the
code review. As illustrated in Fig. 2, the reviewer must use their experience and the
team processes to navigate between tools effectively and decide which steps are helpful


                                            5
and when (MacLeod et al., 2018). This experience takes time to build up, and becoming
effective at code reviews in a new workplace can take up to a year (Bosu et al., 2015).
Even with experience, it demands time, effort, and focus (Söderberg et al., 2022).
Other challenges include understanding the rationale for the code change (Chouchen
et al., 2021), long response times, many repetitions of reviewing the same code change,
and reviewing large code changes (Doğan and Tüzün, 2022).



2.2 Social and Team Effects During Code Review
There is recent work on improving code review practices and recommendations based
on social and team effects in code review. Pascarella et al. (2018) investigate the
information needs of the reviewers during the code review by analyzing discussion
threads with questions and responses in open-source projects. They find seven main
categories of information needs, such as rationale and code context, and recommend
ways to improve code review by better meeting these needs.
    Lee and Hicks (2024) studies anxiety and avoidance in relation to code reviews,
both for code authors and reviewers. Their work outlines the main factors that con-
tribute to code review anxiety and compel developers to avoid or procrastinate code
review tasks, such as fear of judgment and criticism. They also present a CBT-based
intervention that helps developers reduce anxiety after just a single session.
    Coelho et al. (2025) analyzes review comments and divides them into “refactoring-
inducing” and “non-refactoring-inducing”. They describe the factors leading to code
refactorings in code changes and code review comments, since refactoring in the code




                                          ISSUE #4212                                     Documentation




       KANBAN/Scrum board

                                                                                          ML
                                                                                                                Development environment
                              Issue/Requirements tracker
                                                                                                           LV
                                                           Gerrit, GitHub, GitLab, etc.
                                                                                          ML

                                                                                                           LV


                            Code Review                                                        Team chat




Fig. 2 Illustration of the experience of navigating between different tools during code review. The
backpack and checklist represent the reviewer’s experience and team processes respectively. Take-
away: The code review tool is in the center, but cross-referencing with several other tools is necessary
to understand the full context of the code review.


                                                                          6
review stage when the code is almost ready can be time-consuming. They give guide-
lines to researchers, practitioners, tool builders, and educators on how to better handle
these situations and improve the code review process.

2.3 Gerrit Code Review




Fig. 3 Annotated screenshot of Gerrit user interface. Takeaway: Note how the ‘Change Info’,
‘Submit Requirements’, and ‘Commit message’ sections gives an overview of the state and context
of the code change. The log shows examples of both automated systems and human reviewers voting
on different aspects.


    Gerrit Code Review3 is the open source code review platform used by the teams in
this study. It is a widely used code review tool that has its origins in Google Mondrian,
the code review platform used for many of Google’s internal projects. When Google
released the Android project as open source4 , they wanted a code review tool with

  3
      https://www.gerritcodereview.com/
  4
      https://source.android.com/


                                              7
features and workflow similar to Mondrian, but built with open source software and
using Git5 instead of Perforce for version control. Fig. 3 shows an annotated screenshot
of Gerrit’s user interface. Some concepts and terminology from Gerrit show up in the
quotes from the study.

Changeset and Patchset
A collection of one or more changed files with a commit message describing the ratio-
nale for the change is called a changeset in Gerrit. A changeset can have many versions,
called patchsets, for example if the first version received some code review comments
that led to updating the code and submitting a new version for re-review.

Voting
Gerrit is very flexible in how you can set up your workflows. While most code review
software by default only allows the reviewer to accept or reject the changed code, Ger-
rit has a voting system instead. The administrator can create multiple labels to vote
for and configure a range of numeric values for voting. By default the labels ‘Code
Review’ and ‘Verified’ are available, signifying code review results and testing/verifi-
cation results, respectively. Rules can be set up to allow merging the changed code
only when certain voting scores are reached. In the setup used in this study, review-
ers can make the decision to vote -2, -1, ±0, +1, or +2 on the ‘Code Review’ label,
and each reviewer’s vote accumulates to the total score on the code change. The code
change must reach a total code review score of +2 or higher before it is possible to
merge it into the main branch. This means that a vote of -2 will effectively block the
code change from being merged, -1 will strongly discourage it, ±0 will be a neutral
vote, +1 means that you approve but you want someone more to take a look, and +2
signifies approval and ready to merge. Automated tests, linters, static analyzers, etc.,
can also vote on the code change but usually on labels like ‘Verified’, ‘Formatted’, etc.,
so their votes will not be confused with the scores from human reviewers.

Commenting
Reviewers can decide to leave code review comments on individual lines of code as well
as for the change as a whole, independently of how they choose to vote. Comments
can be questions that need clarification, suggestions for improvements, pointing out
potential issues, requests for fixes, or code for alternative solutions that the author can
accept with just a click. When created, comments are marked as unresolved and must
manually be marked as resolved by code change author or the reviewer who wrote the
comment before the code change can be merged into the main branch.

2.4 The Recognition-Primed Decision Model
Research on rational choice and decision-making has shown that in practice human
rationality is quite far from living up to the standards of being absolute or globally
rational (i.e., the ability to pick the objectively best choice). Instead, it should be
considered bounded or local and dependent on the problem framing made by the

 5
     https://git-scm.com/



                                            8
                          Experience the Situation in a Changing Context


                              Diagnose           no
                         [Feature Matching]              Is Situation Typical?
                          [Story Building]             [Prototype or Analogue]
              more               inference                                 yes
              data
                            Clarify            Recognition has Four By-Products


                           Anomaly              Expectancies        Relevant
                                                                     Cues

                                                  Plausible          Action
                                                   Goals              1...n



                                                              Evaluate
                                                             Action (n)
                                                         [Mental Simulation]
                                                                                  no
                                      Modify                      Will it work?
                                                      yes, but
                                                                           yes
                                                             Implement
                                                           Course of Action
Fig. 4 Recognition-primed decision (RPD) model from Klein (1998). Takeaway: In contrast with
previous models of rational decision-making, Klein models decision-making as a process that starts
from experiencing the situation and recognizing similarities and differences to previous situations.
From this recognition springs possible actions that are tested, first with mental simulation and then
in practice.



decision maker and the currently available knowledge (Simon, 1996, 1955; Tversky
and Kahneman, 1981; Dekker, 2002).
    However, even then, the decision-making process does not necessarily aim at the
best possible solution. Rather, it has been shown that the decision maker applies
a satisficing approach, that is, looks for the first solution available deemed ”good
enough” (Simon, 1996), and that heuristics and biases play an important part in the
decision-making process (Tversky and Kahneman, 1974).
    Klein defines the ground-breaking and influential recognition-primed decision
model (RPD model) (Klein, 1998) from research on fireground and military comman-
ders, who need to make critical decisions often and quickly. The RPD model differs
from the more traditional rational choice strategy model (Simon, 1955), in that it does
not list all available actions and their pros and cons. Instead, the RPD model describes
how decision makers use their experience to, often subconsciously, identify analogous
situations and take the first action that, by experience and mental simulation, seems
likely to succeed.
    The RPD model (see Fig. 4) is an iterative model that begins with experiencing
a situation and evaluating if the situation is typical. If it is deemed typical in some


                                                  9
aspect, i.e. recognized, this elicits expectancies, relevant cues, plausible goals, and
typical actions. From here, there are two iterative flows possible. First, check if the
perceived reality matches the expectations and if it does not go back, collect more data,
and modify the story building until the expectations match reality. Second, evaluate
possible actions by mental simulation and modify or discard the action until the first
action likely to work is found. Then, this action is carried out, with the decision maker
mentally prepared for some of the possible consequences. If the results differ from the
mental predictions, the situation is re-evaluated and the decision maker carries out a
different action they feel is likely to work under the new circumstances. The process
repeats until the desired outcome is achieved, or there are no more actions likely to
work.

3 Methodology

                                                                                        Theory
       Data collection                               Data analysis
                                                                                        building

         Interviews                       Thematic                       Statistical    Modeling
        Observations                      analysis                        analysis




                                                                                       Cognitive
         Audio ﬁles      Transcriptions     Codes         Themes
                                                                                        model
                                                                     Sequence
                                  Process             Theme    diagrams
                                  coding             workshops          Temporal Theoretical
                                                                        diagrams modeling

                                          Member           Statistical
   Code review                            checking          analysis
    sessions

Fig. 5 Process and method overview. Takeaway: The theoretical output, a cognitive model of code
review, is built upon data collection from real code review sessions followed by thematic and statistic
analysis.


    In Fig. 5, we present an overview of the process and methods used in this study.
The study design is based on constructivist epistemology applied to ethnographic
methodology, as described by Williamson (Williamson, 2006), with the purpose of
co-constructing useful and applicable models and theories together with the study
participants. As described by Sharp et al. (2016), ethnography applied to software
engineering is well suited to explore not only what practitioners do but also why
they do it. Sharp et al. also find that the results of ethnographic studies can deepen
knowledge on social and human aspects of software engineering, inform improvements
to software engineering tools, lead to process development, and point out directions
for future research. All of which are goals for the contributions of this study.


                                                     10
    Specifically, to understand the questions asked during code reviews (RQ2 , RQ3 )
and the corresponding cognitive processes (RQ1 ), we designed an ethnographic think-
aloud study combined with interviews (Charmaz, 2014). We worked with software
developers in the industry and captured the participants’ normal way of reviewing as
closely as possible. Our goal was to help developers feel comfortable and view the study
as an exploration, and not an evaluation, of their code review techniques, habits, and
skills. To achieve this, the first author worked from the same office as the participants
for several weeks to get to know the participants and to be available whenever someone
needed to do a code review.
    The first author sat right next to the software developers while they conducted
real code reviews on their usual workstations, in their own workplace, and in their
team context. Everyone was fully informed about the research, and we asked the
participants to treat the first author as a newly hired developer and openly explain
their ways of working. In this role, we could observe code reviews and the questions
asked by developers and document their thought processes and strategies to choose
code reviews, ask and answer questions, write review comments, and conclude the
code reviews.
    The first author has worked as a software developer, project manager, team lead,
etc., in similar companies for over 15 years and has extensive first-hand experience
with code reviews. This background contributed to creating good rapport between the
researcher and the participants. Encouraging participants to be more detailed, vocal,
and open in describing their code reviews, backgrounds, and processes.

3.1 Study Context
To achieve depth in our interviews and code review sessions, we presented the study
idea to a multinational software company where we already had an active industry-
academia collaboration agreement. The second author contacted the company to ask
for a meeting in which we could present the study, and after the company accepted
the invitation, the first author gave a presentation about the background of the study,
its goals, and its methodology.
    In agreement with the company, we decided to focus the study on their tools
department. The tools department has around 30 developers with different levels of
experience divided into 8 teams and working in several programming languages. This
department was chosen because it would give a broad view of different practices and
levels of experience and because it works almost exclusively with open-source software,
allowing us to conduct the study and report the findings more openly.

3.1.1 Code Review Process
All teams use Gerrit as their code review platform (Section 2.3), and code reviews are
mandatory for all code changes. Depending on the size of the team, one or two other
team members must approve every code change before it can be merged. The majority
of the repositories have automatic linting, code formatting, unit tests, and continu-
ous integration (CI), eliminating the most basic code review comments and allowing
reviewers to focus on higher-level issues. The process requires all team members to


                                           11
review code at least once a week and to try and check their code review inbox daily
so that code changes do not get stuck for too long waiting for review.


3.2 Participants


   Table 1 Role, experience, and weekly time spent on code review for the participants in the
   study.

    Participant    Role            Code review exp.     Role exp.     Weekly code reviews
    P01            Developer                  3 years       3 years                  1 hour
    P02            SW Architect              14 years       9 years                 2 hours
    P03            Developer                 14 years       9 years                 2 hours
    P04            Developer                   1 year        1 year              0.75 hours
    P05            Developer                  6 years        1 year                 5 hours
    P06            Developer                  2 years       2 years              5-10 hours
    P07            Team Lead                  5 years       5 years               2-3 hours
    P08            Team Lead                 16 years       7 years                 6 hours
    P09            Developer                 11 years      11 years               4-8 hours
    P10            Developer                 17 years      13 years                 5 hours
    Average                                   8 years       6 years                 4 hours
    Std.dev.                                  6 years       4 years                 2 hours




    During the duration of the study, 10 software developers, from the tools depart-
ment mentioned above, participated in interviews and code review sessions. Their role,
experience in the role, experience with code reviews, and average time spent on code
reviews weekly are found in Table 1. No participants left the study during or after
field work. The participants are all of Swedish nationality and have at least a Bachelor
degree. The teams involved each have 2-7 developers and work according to the agile
software development methodology. In accordance with the team process, all partic-
ipants did code reviews at least every week with many of the participants reviewing
code every workday.


3.3 Data Collection
To test our study design and the interview protocol, we conducted a pilot interview
and code review session at a small local software company. The pilot session went
smoothly and gave us no reason to change the study setup. Data from the pilot study
were kept for reference and comparison, but excluded from data analysis and results.
    For each participant, we collected informed consent for the participation in the
research study and interviewed them about their background, experience with code
review, and role in the team. Whenever a participant had a pending code review to
carry out, the first author sat next to them, observing their work and asking them to
think aloud about what they were doing during the code review sessions. We asked
questions or noted their actions aloud to record them in the sound file and to encourage
the participants to explain and reflect on what they were doing and why. The code
review sessions and the interviews were recorded using a dictaphone.


                                              12
3.4 Data Analysis
To analyze the material in this study, we used the principles of Williamson’s construc-
tivist ethnographic research (Williamson, 2006) and thematic analysis following the
general process described by Braun and Clarke (Braun and Clarke, 2006; Clarke and
Braun, 2017):
1. Familiarizing yourself with your data: We transcribed and annotated the recorded
   material and performed member-checking to validate the data.
2. Generating initial codes: We coded the transcriptions using process coding.
3. Searching for themes: Two authors organized the process codes into themes
   independently.
4. Reviewing themes: All authors reviewed and analyzed the themes until interpreta-
   tive convergence.
5. Defining and naming themes: We refined the theme naming by studying excerpts
   from transcriptions.
6. Producing the report: We analyzed themes using statistical and sequential analysis.



3.4.1 Data Transcription
The first author manually transcribed the sound files from all interviews and code
review sessions into Markdown-formatted text. The text files were annotated with
information about the participant, the time and date, and the beginning and end of
each code review session. The interviews were conducted in Swedish mixed with many
software engineering terms and anglicisms. Care had to be taken when transcribing the
material to preserve the meaning and intent faithfully. Due to data privacy agreements
with the company and for language reasons, we did not use automated transcription
software.



3.4.2 Participant Feedback & Member-Checking
To verify emerging themes from the data and establish an approach for coding the
finished transcripts, we invited all participants to a member-checking focus group
meeting (Birt et al., 2016). The meeting was planned and facilitated by the first
author and participants P01, P02, P05, P06, P09, and P10 attended. The meeting was
recorded with a tabletop dictaphone to ensure a clear recording of everyone’s voice.
    During the meeting, we presented examples from the transcriptions for each emerg-
ing theme. The participants then discussed whether they recognized the situations in
the quotes and what their experiences were like in similar situations. There were also
general discussions on the processes and challenges in code review. The first author
took notes that were reviewed during the meeting by the participants. These notes and
the audio recording of the meeting were combined into meeting minutes that described
the points to be taken into account during the continued analysis of the transcribed
data.

                                          13
Now I know kind of, we have talked about this one so I know more or less what it is about [...]     asking what you already know
There is more awareness around stuﬀ like that since the cyber attack one year ago [...] It is not   asking about risks               understanding rationale
something that I think is important enough to comment on. [...] How good reasons are required       asking if they should comment    assessing change
to motivate deviating from the standard? [...] It was Person A who wrote this, and they have,       asking about impl. choices       selecting next action     orientational
they were for several years the owner of the ﬁrmware test framework. [...] It is for our            asking about author              assessing impl.           analytical
deployment. And then I know I want to, ..., start with this. Because then I give them a fast        asking about expected timeline   understanding context
review response. [...] This is interesting, I would have assumed that this was just one ID, but     asking how the code works        selecting a review task
since we are checking here it has to be, we are checking the length of a list.                      ...                              understanding impl.



                                  Transcribed text                                                       Process codes                     Themes               Topics
Fig. 6 Example of process coding showing excerpts of transcribed text, a small selection of process
codes, and mappings onto themes and topics. Takeaway: The transcribed text is abstracted into
process codes, process codes are abstracted into themes, and finally themes are abstracted into topics.


3.4.3 Initial Coding
Coding, in qualitative methods, is the practice of assigning a label or code to each sen-
tence or segment of a text (Charmaz, 2014). The purpose is to increase the abstraction
level of the text to facilitate the data analysis and comparison of different parts of the
material. Different ways of coding will highlight different aspects of the original data.
Coding is often done repeatedly, first by abstracting text into codes, then systemizing
the codes into themes, and then grouping the themes into topics (see Fig. 6). Since
the study aims to understand the developers’ cognitive process during code review,
we chose process coding both for the initial coding of the transcribed data and for
constructing the themes. The first author did the initial coding, with authors two and
three reviewing the coding and suggesting changes.
    Process coding is a methodology where the first word in every code must start
with a verb in the gerund form (ending with -ing in English) (Saldaña, 2015). This
form of coding is designed to capture the action and intention behind each coded
segment (Charmaz, 2014), making it especially suited to uncover underlying questions
and processes. Its name comes from how it results in a timeline of actions, a process.

3.4.4 Identifying Themes
The first and second authors independently grouped the process codes into themes to
get two contrasting starting points. Based on these two sets of themes, all three authors
discussed and worked through differences in workshop meetings. In these meetings,
process codes, suggested themes, and excerpts from the transcripts were used. We drew
connections between the sets of themes, regrouped process codes, and discussed until
we reached interpretive convergence (Saldaña, 2015). Finally, using the transcripts,
we refined the naming of the themes to capture and communicate the intent of the
segments they covered.

3.4.5 Statistical Analysis
When codes and themes were established, we wrote a Python program to analyze the
data using temporal and sequential analysis. The sequential analysis determined the
transition rate from each theme of questions to another. We gathered the transition
rates into a transition table and constructed a sequence diagram of the code review
process using the top 3 most common incoming and outgoing transitions with a rate
higher than 0, see Fig. 8.


                                                                                          14
    For temporal analysis, we positioned each theme in relation to the start and end-
points of each code review. Sometimes, code reviews were paused or interrupted due
to meetings, the end of the work day, or other more urgent code reviews. In the anal-
ysis program, we detected these interruptions and gathered the codes and themes for
each code review in a linear flow. We normalized the duration of each review, which
ranged from a couple of minutes to almost an hour, to a scale from 0 at the beginning
of the review to 1 at the end. We analyzed the distribution of each theme, as well as
the process codes contained, over the duration of the code reviews.


3.5 Ethical Considerations
Contributing to the research study would take significant time and effort for the par-
ticipants, and neither they nor the company could be reimbursed or compensated
for this. Participation was done with informed consent and on an explicitly volun-
tary basis. For participants, the upside would be learning something new about how
they perform code reviews by explaining it to someone else, a change of pace in their
workday, and the feeling of contributing to research.
    During sessions and interviews, statements might come up that could be neg-
atively interpreted by colleagues or the employer. To protect the participants, we
pseudonymized all interviews and keep audio recordings and transcriptions confiden-
tial except for excerpts used to exemplify codes and themes. To allow other researchers
to verify and replicate our study, it would be ideal to publish all collected data, but as
discussed above, this is not possible for privacy and confidentiality reasons. The inter-
view protocols, the data analysis program and the process-coded data set are available
in the replication package (Section 9).


4 Results
The study includes 10 participants (Table 1); 7 out of 10 described their role as
‘Developer’, 2 as ‘Team Lead’, and 1 as ‘Software Architect’. The minimum work
experience among the participants, both in their role and in code reviews, was 1 year.
The most experienced participant had worked with code reviews for 17 years and in
their current role for 13 years. The average was 8 years of code review experience and
6 years of experience in their current role.
   We gathered data from a total of 34 code reviews (Table 2). The mean code review
duration was 19 minutes with a standard deviation of 18 minutes. The shortest review
took 1 minute, while the longest one took 75 minutes. During all the recorded code
reviews, we process-coded a total of 1159 segments, meaning an average of 116 coded
segments per participant and an average of 34 segments per review.
   The recorded sessions show a clear majority of positive votes (Table 1); 26 of 34
code reviews receive a vote of at least +1. Often positive votes are given even when
the reviewer wrote code review comments that they wanted to be addressed, either by
updating the code or explaining the current implementation. Many participants say
that the teams have a culture of trust and in general vote for merging the code and
trust the author to address comments in a good way without needing re-review.


                                           15
          Table 2 Overview of code review sessions from which we collected data. Note
          that a coded segment roughly corresponds to a paragraph in the transcription.

            Participant    # Segments      Duration (min.)     Outcome
            P01                       27                  26   vote ±0 with comments
            P01                        7                   4   vote +2
            P01                       17                  20   vote ±0 with comments
            P01                        4                   2   vote +2
            P01                        2                   1   vote +2
            P02                       98                  48   vote +1 with comments
            P02                        7                   9   vote +1 with comments
            P02                       32                   6   vote +1
            P02                      166                  75   vote -1 with comments
            P03                      141                  49   vote -1 with comments
            P03                       15                   5   vote +2
            P03                        7                   2   vote +2 with comments
            P04                       45                  42   vote +1 with comments
            P05                       50                  38   vote +1 with comments
            P05                       15                  21   vote +1
            P05                       15                   6   vote +2
            P05                        9                   6   vote +2
            P05                       49                  32   vote +1 with comments
            P05                       15                  37   vote +1 with comments
            P06                       70                  49   vote ±0 with comments
            P07                       75                  41   vote ±0 with comments
            P08                       20                   6   vote +2 with comments
            P08                       34                   9   vote +2
            P08                       37                  17   vote +1 with comments
            P09                       14                   9   vote +1 with comments
            P09                       25                  17   vote +2 with comments
            P09                       13                   7   vote -1 with comments
            P10                       16                   4   vote +1 with comments
            P10                       16                   7   vote +1
            P10                       43                  26   vote -1 with comments
            P10                        3                   1   vote +1
            P10                       61                  21   vote ±0 with comments
            P10                        4                   1   vote +2
            P10                        7                   4   vote +1
            Total                  1159                  648
            Average                  34                   19
            Std.dev.                 38                   18




  “To force them to fix this little issue and then them having to wait for me to get back and
  approve feels very silly. So I leave a comment, set +2. [. . . ] So if, because I trust them to
  fix it, I don’t have to come back and look at it [again].” —P06, post code review interview
  “You can trust that people will fix it in a satisfactory way. I don’t need to look at it again.
  It is just a waste of time. Especially if you have several people, it becomes, like, it adds lead
  time. So then you can vote +1 or +2 if you anyway think that ‘oh, I trust that this person
  will do, do something good regarding my comment’. And then we have configured it so [. . . ]
  you cannot, you cannot submit the change when you have unresolved comments.” —P02

   In our thematic analysis (see Section 3.4) we constructed 157 process-codes to
abstract explicit or implicit question underlying the 1159 segments. During the
process-coding, we reached data saturation after coding around 3/4 of the transcribed


                                               16
                       orientational themes                                                      analytical themes
                            27% (311)                                                               73% (848)



   selecting a review task             understanding rationale        assessing implementation                       assessing change
           6% (75)                           15% (171)                        315 (27%)                                  5% (57)


                      understanding context                                 selecting next action           understanding implementation
                            6% (65)                                              15% (179)                           26% (297)

Fig. 7 Topics, their contained themes, and the number of occurrences in the data set. Takeaway:
Over 70% of the questions fall under the analytical themes indicating a majority of the code review
effort is spent here.


material and after this very rarely encountered new process codes. We grouped the
process-codes into 7 themes encoding commonality in underlying intentions. The
detailed mapping from process codes to themes can be found in the replication package
(Section 9). The three most common themes are assessing implementation, under-
standing implementation, and selecting next action, which were found 315, 297, and
179 times, respectively, in the transcriptions.
    In turn, the themes are grouped into two topics: orientational themes, and analyti-
cal themes. Fig. 7 shows the topics, the enclosed themes, and the number of occurrences
in the process-coded segments. The orientational themes revolve around how to make
sense of the context, framing, and rationale of the review, while the analytical themes
are about understanding the changed code, evaluating it, planning the next action,
and making a decision about the change as a whole. The analytical themes are the
most common and make up 73% of the process-coded segments, with the orientational
themes covering the remaining 27%.

4.1 Orientational Themes
In the transcribed data, we found many different kinds of questions asked to explore
the context, framing, and rationale of the code review; orienting the code review task
in relation to author, repository, expected timeline, programming language, rationale
for the code change, available time for the reviewer, etc. This topic spans three themes:
selecting a review task, understanding context, and understanding rationale.

4.1.1 Theme: Selecting a Review Task
Questions about how to pick which code change to review. This involves asking about
the amount of time you have available as a reviewer, the urgency of different code
changes, social factors, competence, and interests. Many reviews begin from the list
showing all code changes that are waiting for code review, where the reviewer picks
one based on available time, code change size, and urgency.
  “I get an overview. And here I can somehow, now it is only 3 reviews, but for the case
  where it would have been, I don’t know, say 10 reviews. And somewhere, I have, you have
  8 hours per day. Then I have to prioritize somehow what, what it is I will look at. [. . . ] I
  try to somewhere check a bit what it is that. . . yes, but what is kind of the most important?
  Everybody wants to get their code out, but what, what is the prio-order? If I, like, know
  Person C is working on something that is, that they have been doing for a long time and
  they really want to get it out. And it is the last thing in the stack, then I will rather take


                                                                 17
  that than for example this. Then I know the other one is not, is like, it is not as urgent.”
  —P05
  “And then if there are several things [to code review] you can maybe make time for a couple
  of the small ones but have to leave the big ones, or you take one big [code review] and leave
  the small ones.” —P07

A more experienced participant with a software architect role also factored in if their
expertise was required, or if someone else could review the code instead.
  “So the choice of what I will look at is kind of the combination of, like, urgency and if I,
  if it is like, so to speak, are they waiting for me or are there others that can do it?” —P02

One participant kept it simple and usually picked the code change that had been
waiting for the longest time.
  “I usually take the oldest.” —P01

4.1.2 Theme: Understanding Context
Questions to orient the change and the review task in regards to who the author of the
change is, what programming language it is written in, which repository it is, how long
ago the change was posted, the expected timeline for deploying the change, previous
reviews, related work, etc. In one review, the reviewer asks about who the author is
and their background and concludes that the changed code will probably have tests
in place:
  “It was Person A who wrote this, and they have, they were for several years the owner of
  the firmware test framework. [. . . ] So that’s good, you don’t have to nag them to write tests
  at least.” —P02

During another session, a reviewer asks about repository, author, and author’s recent
work.
  “I check repo and person. Because then I know a little, I know for this repo it is mostly
  Person B working in it right now. And then I can, like, infer that, ok, I know what Person
  B is up to and that gives me some context still. . . ” —P05

One reviewer checks for previous code review comments.
  “So that, also the others have had some, a number of comments already.” —P09

For a code change with previous reviews and multiple versions (patchsets in Gerrit
terminology), one participant asks which version they have seen before and sets that
version as the base version for comparisons.
  “I would probably do the same thing here. . . no, right, this is a re-review so then I think I
  will compare with patchset 1 that is the, the one I reviewed last time.” —P02

4.1.3 Theme: Understanding Rationale
Understanding why a change has been made and what goals it is trying to achieve. In
one example, the reviewer directly asks about the rationale and how it compares to
their expectations.


                                              18
  “. . . otherwise it would have been interesting to know ‘what are we trying to solve here,
  really?’. And it seems like maybe the scope has become a bit bigger, now they have done a
  bunch of other stuff ” —P03

For another participant, it is the first thing they ask about when starting a code review.
  “So then you will, first of all, check if I understand this. Because that is often a thing for
  me with his stuff. I mean, do I know what he wants to do here?” —P04

Many participants investigate the rationale by reading the original issue in the issue
tracker (JIRA in the case of this company).
  “Right, let’s see what it says. . . [reading quietly, from JIRA] Yes, so then I see that this is
  also just a part towards making us more automated.” —P10
  “If we have an issue then it is, then I often think it is good to go in here and check because
  you can get some background. A bit more. People are different in how much you want to
  write in your commit-message and stuff.” —P04
  “OK, now we go to the JIRA-issue.” —P01



4.2 Analytical Themes
Many questions in the transcripts involve analytical themes aiming towards solving
the code review task, i.e., finding defects, writing comments, voting, etc. These are
questions that seek to understand and evaluate the implementation details of the
changed code, plan the next action to take in the code review, and also to evaluate
the change as a whole. This topic spans four themes: assessing change, assessing
implementation, selecting next action, and understanding implementation.


4.2.1 Theme: Assessing Change
In this theme, there are questions about whether the change as a whole, regardless of
the specifics of the implementation, meets the reviewer’s expectations. The reviewer
questions security, performance, interoperability, rationale, compatibility with future
development plans, etc. One reviewer asks about the impact of the changed code:
  “Because this is that kind of change. Here, it is the total opposite of the last one, this is
  something that affects a lot of people. It is a critical piece (of code).” —P10

One example involves questioning what would happen if the change was deployed as-is.
  “In practice we could have rolled out this change today. It is just that we probably would
  have gotten support tickets asking ‘how does this actually work?’ ” —P07

    A common example is general reasoning about the risks involved with the change
as a whole, regardless of the specific implementation choices.
  “The thing is, what are the risks with this change? Either it doesn’t work for unknown
  reasons or it could, it would maybe create, maybe create a huge amount of tickets in JIRA. It
  is maybe not great to overload JIRA either. But we would have noticed it pretty quickly. . . ”
  —P04


                                               19
4.2.2 Theme: Assessing Implementation
Asking questions about whether the implementation follows the code conventions for
the project, is readable, is correct, has bugs, meets the rationale, etc. An example is
a session where the reviewer dislikes the implementation choices in the tests.
  “I’m not very fond of what he has done here, in that he uses his own struct-type for the
  tests.” —P02

Another reviewer questions the safety of the import statements used.
  “So now we have imported something from the backend, from a backend project, so to speak.
  It is maybe not always safe to do that from the frontend without, what you call like, there is
  something called isomorphic javascript. [..] It is doubtful if you can do what is done here.”
  —P03

Asking about or commenting on error handling and system messages is also common.
  “To just say ‘failed to run command’ is not a very good error message in my opinion.”
  —P02

Questions verifying that the code looks reasonable and follows expectations is also
frequently found.
  “Here we check, check the format, check if things look reasonable. ‘New host replace old
  machine’, ok. And this looks relatively reasonable.” —P05


4.2.3 Theme: Selecting Next Action
Questions about what the next step in a review is. For example, on whether to read
related documentation, run the code locally, read the code again, talk to the author,
reference the issue tracker, and more. One strategy encountered in the code review
sessions is to look for the entry point and read the code in the order it is called during
execution.
  “Then I try to identify, if I look at the file list, to find, like, the top of the call stack. So
  you do not start by going deep down into, like, a leaf function.” —P02

Asking if they should write a comment or not is common and often involves reasoning
about the implementation.
  “Do we want a database connection directly from the service layer? It might be that we
  have that in other places but that I have just forgotten. In that case, like, it is like that.
  But we will write a comment on it.” —P06

Choosing how to vote involves different strategies. One participant checks the overview
over all code review comments to inform their decision and to remember questions
they had about the code change.
  “And now, sometimes I have not really decided how I will, what I will do [when voting]. But
  then you can get an overview here over what, where you can see, but is that. . . ? [looking
  at a preview of all code review comments] Mostly, mostly a lot of small. . . and then it was,
  what was the thing again. . . ? Something I did not like a lot that I was going to look at
  later, what was it now again. . . ?” —P02


                                               20
Reviewers often take into account the size of the code change and they want other
reviewers to look at it when reasoning about how to vote. Either deciding they want
at least one more approval:
  “Mmm, the change is so small that you could set +2 here. Just to say that is it OK. But
  in this case I still think that I would like to set +1. Because I would like, when you set +1,
  you are saying ‘looks good to me, but someone else must approve’.” —P05

. . . or that their own review is sufficient:
  “This is such a small thing so then I feel like this, are two [pairs of ] eyes required for this?
  Except mine? No, here I somehow trust Person D [commit author] and myself so then I
  think that, yes, we might as well set +2.” —P05

. . . or when they are the second reviewer and give the final approval:
  “Yes, yes, and here they have voted code review +1, so then I could set +2 actually. Because
  there is no reason [not to] since I think it looks reasonable.” —P09

4.2.4 Theme: Understanding Implementation
This theme includes questions about, i.e., the execution flow through the code, call
signatures, variable declarations, comparing the code before and after the change, etc.
One participant traces the execution of the code and decides to check it out in their
IDE.
  “Then he does a ’findOne’. Then I think I want to look at it in my IDE here. Because I
  wonder what is going one. Let’s see, let’s see. . . ” —P06

There are also general questions about how the code works.
  “I’m just trying to understand what, what the change does” —P01
  “No, I don’t know what the hell it does.” —P02

Another reviewer traces the execution to finally understand how it fits together.
  “Umm, this became a bit strange because here you have, here we get a context from the. . . or,
  yes, really from the event-pipeline as a whole that calls this method to handle an activity-
  started event and there we get a context that can contain a timeout or a cancellation. So we
  need to. . . and then I get this, but the transaction as a whole has, does not get any context.
  But we do send the context in. . . Ah, right! When we look up, when we fetch a build!” —P02

  In other cases, something that looks like a serious mistake makes the reviewer ask
why the code does not crash.
  “So this seems weird. It should actually, it should crash there with a key violation in the
  database, I think, because you are not meant to be able to register the same activity on the
  same build attempt more than once.” —P02

4.3 Transitions Between Themes
In Fig. 8, we visualize the results of the sequential analysis (Section 3.4.5) as a sequence
diagram. The graph shows the themes and the transition rate of the questions being
asked shifting from one theme to another. In addition to the themes, the events ‘start


                                                21
                                     start review


                                                                   0.59


                                                    0.09            selecting a review task                      0.31


                                            0.26                                 0.12


 0.94                                               0.21            understanding context                        0.31


                                                              0.17                                      0.06

                                                                                  0.17
                      understanding rationale                        0.51                                                  0.33


                                     0.02
                                                    0.11

                      end review                                                                                                              0.13
                                                                0.06

                                                                                                      resume review                                  0.67

                                                                                               0.33
        0.14           0.11


                                        assessing implementation                        0.44                    0.33


               0.04                                         0.23     0.16


                              0.26           0.31          selecting next action                      0.32


                                                             0.17     0.10                                                             0.33


                                            understanding implementation                         0.42          0.19     0.01


           orientational themes                                        0.30    0.05

           analytical themes
                                                                          assessing change                   0.19
           events                                                                                                       pause review
                                                                                                         0.02
Fig. 8 Transitions between themes during code review. Takeaway: After starting the review, there
is a linear flow through the three orientational themes followed by an iterative loop through the four
analytical themes.



review’, ‘pause review’, ‘resume review’, and ‘end review’ are included as reference
points for the process. The 3 most frequent outgoing and incoming edges are plotted.
A full list of transition rates can be found in Fig. 9. The transition rates are normalized
to 1 over the outgoing edges, while the sum over the incoming edges can be higher or
lower. For example, for less frequent themes such as end review, which occurs at most
once for every review, the sum of the incoming transition rates is much lower than 1.
    In the diagram, we can see that, right after starting a code review session, the
most common action (60% of cases) is to select which code change to review. When
the review task is selected and its scope and expectations are known, the questions
first shift to understanding the context and then to understanding the rationale for


                                                                                22
                       start review   0.00            0.59                      0.26                      0.09                   0.00           0.00             0.00                           0.06                    0.00                       0.00              0.00

           selecting a review task    0.00            0.31                      0.21                      0.12                   0.00           0.00             0.12                           0.13                    0.05                       0.04              0.01

          understanding rationale     0.00            0.08                      0.51                      0.06                   0.00           0.00             0.14                           0.05                    0.11                       0.03              0.02

           understanding context      0.00            0.00                      0.17                      0.31                   0.00           0.00             0.15                           0.17                    0.12                       0.06              0.02

                      pause review    0.67            0.00                      0.00                      0.00                   0.00           0.33             0.00                           0.00                    0.00                       0.00              0.00

                     resume review    0.00            0.33                      0.00                      0.00                   0.00           0.00             0.00                           0.33                    0.33                       0.00              0.00

    understanding implementation      0.00            0.02                      0.06                      0.03                   0.00           0.00             0.42                           0.10                    0.31                       0.05              0.01

             selecting next action    0.00            0.04                      0.04                      0.03                   0.01           0.00             0.17                           0.32                    0.23                       0.04              0.11

        assessing implementation      0.00            0.01                      0.06                      0.02                   0.00           0.00             0.26                           0.16                    0.44                       0.04              0.01

                 assessing change     0.00            0.04                      0.04                      0.04                   0.02           0.00             0.30                           0.16                    0.19                       0.19              0.04

                        end review    0.94            0.00                      0.00                      0.00                   0.00           0.06             0.00                           0.00                    0.00                       0.00              0.00



                                                                               understanding rationale




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  assessing change
                                      start review




                                                                                                                                 pause review


                                                                                                                                                resume review




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     end review
                                                                                                                                                                understanding implementation


                                                                                                                                                                                               selecting next action


                                                                                                                                                                                                                       assessing implementation
                                                     selecting a review task




                                                                                                         understanding context
            orientational themes
            analytical themes

            events



Fig. 9 Transition probabilities between themes during code review. Takeaway: Three denser clus-
ters appear, one in the top left quadrant between the orientational themes, one in the bottom right
quadrant with the analytical themes and one less dense in the top right quadrant showing the tran-
sition from orientational to analytical themes.


the change. If the reviewer has already decided what to review before starting the
session, they usually go straight to trying to understand the rationale, maybe because
in these cases they already know the context.
    These first three themes are all more orientational in nature, asking about, for
example, expectations, author, related work, and rationale. Also note that while the
reviewer often iterates on every theme, they never move backward once they have
started asking questions on the next theme. We believe that this is because there is a
causal link between these questions. You need to have selected what to review before it
is meaningful or possible to learn the context and rationale of what you are reviewing.
Likewise, if you after understanding context and rationale go back and pick another
code change to review, it means that you are ending the current review and starting
a new review session. You can see in the diagram that this actually happened in our
dataset, although very few times, as indicated by the arc going from understanding
rationale straight to end review.
    After that, the reviewer moves on to the remaining four themes; assessing imple-
mentation, selecting next action, understanding implementation, and assessing change.
These themes are more analytical compared to the initial three themes, and revolve
around understanding, assessment, and planning. In the sequence diagram, they form
a series of connected loops, and we can see that the reviewer moves iteratively between
them.

                                                                                                                     23
     Notably, the fact that the selecting next action questions are so central in the
iterative loop highlights that code review is not a linear and straightforward activity
where the reviewer just reads the diffs of the changed files from beginning to end.
Instead, the reviewer constantly plans what to do next and will often revisit the same
files and lines many times during a review.

Interrupted Reviews
If a review is interrupted for some reason, in two thirds of the cases it is resumed
by going directly to assessing implementation or selecting next action and then into
the iterative loop described above. In one third of the cases, we see that even if the
reviewer has read some of the code before they were interrupted, they start over from
the beginning and read all of the code again to gain a full picture of the code change
and be able to reach a decision on how to vote. Also, even if the reviewer goes straight
into assessing implementation, they will often start over and read from the first code
diff in the change.
      “I have, I prefer to try to review the whole change in one [sitting]. Because if I get half-
      way and then get interrupted and have to go do something else, yes, I have a tendency to
      get lost a little bit. You have to go through everything, it is faster the second time but you
      still have to do it.” —Participant 7

4.4 Distribution of Themes during Code Review

1.0
              orientational themes
              analytical themes


0.8




0.6




0.4




0.2




0.0

      selecting a review task                   understanding context                 selecting next action                       assessing change
                           understanding rationale             understanding implementation               assessing implementation

Fig. 10 Distribution of themes relative to the beginning (0) and end (1) of the code review. Take-
away: The orientational themes and the analytical themes form two groups respectively. Each group
having similar timestamp distributions internally, but distinct from the other group.


    In Fig. 10 we show the distribution of themes over the normalized timeline of a code
review where 0 and 1 represent the start and the end of the review session, respectively
(see Section 3.4.5). The themes are sorted ascending by the mean timestamp.


                                                                          24
   Supporting the patterns seen in Section 4.3, we see that the themes of the two topics
have similar characteristics within each topic but separate characteristics between
topics. Sorting by mean timestamp separates the themes into two groups aligned with
the topics. The orientational themes selecting a review task, understanding rationale,
and understanding context occur from the beginning to about the midpoint of the
review with a mean timestamp of 0.2 − 0.3. The analytical themes understanding
implementation, selecting next action, assessing implementation, and assessing change
have a timestamp distribution that is centered around the middle and extends to the
end of the code review with a mean timestamp of 0.5 − 0.6.

5 Theory
Here, we present a theoretical model of code review as a decision-making process, first
identifying observed phases and then mapping our observations to the RPD model
described by Klein (1998) (Section 2.4).

5.1 The Two Phases of Code Review
When thematic, temporal, and sequential analyses of the questions asked during code
review are combined, two distinct phases emerge. A linear phase at the beginning of
the review that we call orientation phase, and an iterative phase from the middle to
the end of the review that we call analytical phase.

5.1.1 The Orientation Phase




  selecting a review task         understanding context          understanding rationale


Fig. 11 Orientation phase of code review. Takeaway: In this phase, reviewers explore each theme
with several questions before moving forward to the next. All transitions move forward and the
questions are related to rationale, context, and expectations.



In the orientation phase of code review (see Fig. 11) the reviewer asks about and
establishes context, scope, rationale, and expectations. The phase consists of the three
themes selecting a review task, understanding context, and understanding rationale.
The themes fall under the functional topic of orientational themes, share early mean
timestamps in the temporal analysis, and mostly forward transitions in the sequential
analysis.
     The reviewer begins by asking one or more questions under the selecting a review
task theme, for example, asking about how big the code change is, which code base
it is in, continuous integration (CI) status, priority, and urgency. Next, they continue
with the theme understanding context asking questions about the code change author,
repository, programming language, and type of change (bug fix, feature, refactoring,


                                              25
etc.). Finally, the reviewers ask questions on the theme understanding rationale. For
example, about the commit message content, issue description, feature requirements,
and recent team conversations. Sometimes, the context is well known, from the team
stand-up meeting or other recent discussions, and the reviewer skips directly to under-
standing rationale. Each theme can be repeated multiple times with several questions
exploring the theme, but once the questions transition to the next theme, the reviewer
rarely goes back again.

5.1.2 The Analytical Phase




         understanding impl.                     assessing change

                                                                                  end review

           assessing impl.                    selecting next action




Fig. 12 Analytical phase of code review. Takeaway: The analytical phase iterates over understand-
ing implementation, assessing implementation, assessing the change, and planning the next step. Both
each theme and also the full cycle are repeated several times before the review is done.



In the analytical phase of code review (see Fig. 12), the reviewer iteratively builds
an understanding of the changed code, evaluates the implementation and the change
as a whole based on this new understanding, and plans what action to take next.
The phase consists of the four themes understanding implementation, assessing imple-
mentation, assessing change, and selecting next action. The themes all fall under the
functional topic of analytical themes, share late mean timestamps in the temporal
analysis, have cyclic transitions between them in the sequential analysis, and have
very few transitions going back to the themes in the orientation phase.
    The reviewer could enter the phase on any of the themes. After entering the ana-
lytical phase, the most common scenario is that the reviewer iterates through all the
themes several times before reaching a selecting next action question in which the
reviewer decides to end the review. The final question is often about a summary of the
comments the reviewer has written or about how to vote regarding the code change.

5.2 Introducing a Model of Code Review as Decision-Making
The expected outcome of code review is to reach a decision on voting for or against
merging the changed code (Sadowski et al., 2018). On the way there, the participants
in the study take several smaller decisions around writing review comments, phrasing
of comments, reading external sources, reading changed source code, checking out the


                                                26
          Experience Code Change in Context of Team,                      Experience Changed Code Segment in Context of                         Vote and
                    Rationale, Expectations                               Rationale, Author, Previous Reviews, CI results, ...              Assign to Author
 switch review                                                                                                                                        yes
                                                                                                                                       no
      Collect Information     no                                          Collect Information  no
       about Rationale,             Context and Rationale                                                  Implementation
                                    Matches Expectations?                about Implementation,                                               Review Done?
     Expectations, Context                                                  Behaviour, etc.              Matches Expectations?
                                                     yes      related                                                       yes
                                                              to other
                                                              segment                                                                  Implement Next Action
                             Code Review Contextualization                      Clarify           Recognizing Implementation
                                 has Four By-Products                                                has Four By-Products
                                                                                                                                                      yes
                                                Potential                                                             Plausible   no        Is Action Aligned
                             Expectancies                                   Anomaly              Expectancies
                                                 Issues                                                               Behaviour                With Goals?

                               Plausible        Plausible                                          Plausible            Action
                                Goals            Actions                                          Assessment             1...n
                                                                                                                                            Select Next Action

 Orientation Phase                                           Analytical Phase


Fig. 13 The Code Review as Decision-Making (CRDM) cognitive model. Takeaway: Code review
can be modeled as two linked decision-making processes. The first is preparatory and establish context,
plausible goals, and plausible actions. The second takes decisions on what actions to take during the
review, and how to vote regarding the integration of the code change. It bases these decisions in
understanding the change through both implementation details and as part of a larger system.


code locally, choosing next steps, etc. We can also see that while the cognitive model
of code review comprehension (Gonçalves et al., 2025) is confirmed by our data and
can be mapped to the theme understanding implementation as a whole and to the
mental modeling parts of the theme selecting next action, it is just a part of a larger
cognitive process.
    This leads us to re-frame code review as a kind of decision-making process. Specif-
ically, the orientation and analytical phases in code review can be mapped onto the
RPD model introduced by Klein (1998) (Section 2.4). In Fig. 13, we illustrate the
Code Review as Decision-Making (CRDM) cognitive model mapping the orientation
and analytical phases of code review onto one preparatory and one complete RPD
model, respectively. Connecting the themes, topics, and phases from our data analysis
to the RPD model allows us to construct a cognitive model for the code review task as
a whole. A model in which the code reviewers’ experience helps them spot potential
issues, find confusing or problematic sections of code, formulate effective review com-
ments, look for more information, and vote appropriately for accepting or rejecting
the changed code based on their mental simulation of software and team behavior.
    In the orientation phase, the reviewer asks questions about the rationale and con-
text of the changed code in order to build a story around the change and what it tries
to do and why. This creates expectancies around the changed code, potential issues to
look out for, plausible goals of the review, and plausible actions. If the context or the
rationale does not seem to match expectations, the reviewer collects more informa-
tion, for example, by reading in the issue tracker or asking over the team chat. Since
the reviewer usually does not vote or comment during this phase, it is modeled with
the preparatory first half of the RPD model.
    After the orientation phase, the reviewer enters the analytical phase that can be
modeled with a complete cycle through the RPD model. The reviewer experiences the
changed code in view of the context established in the orientation phase, reacts to how
well it matches their expectations, evaluates if it is in line with the rationale as they
have understood it, and chooses their next action. If the changed code triggers a cue
for potential issues or does not seem to match the rationale, the reviewer takes action
such as writing a review comment, reading external sources, asking for clarification, or


                                                                           27
voting for rejecting the changed code. When the rationale and the code are coherent,
they might perform mental simulation of both what could happen if the code was
deployed and of how their colleagues will respond to review comments and voting
choices. Finally, after as many iterations as needed, the reviewer implements their
decisions on how to vote, which review comments to write, what to communicate in
other channels, and what to do next.
    Together, the two phases in the CRDM model form a cohesive cognitive process
that covers the entire code review task. The orientation phase equips the reviewer
with context and rationale for the code change, while the analytical phase enables
iterative evaluation, understanding, and action planning. In total, it models code
review as a dynamic, experience-driven decision process that includes but goes beyond
comprehension.


6 Discussion
Our results and theoretical modeling show that code review has much in common
with decision-making processes, specifically the RPD model by Klein (1998). Map-
ping the cognitive phases found during code review onto the RPD model gives us a
novel cognitive model (RQ1 ) of Code Review as Decision-Making; the CRDM model
(Section 5.2). This model can explain and predict some observations from empir-
ical studies of code review. For example, since recognition-primed decision-making
requires extensive experience of analogous situations, it can explain how even expe-
rienced programmers can take up to a year to become effective at code review in a
new workplace (Bosu et al., 2015). It is not just about code comprehension (a well-
developed skill for an experienced programmer), but also about building up a mental
index of patterns in a new code base and organization. Furthermore, misalignments
between current code review tools and developer needs (Söderberg et al., 2022) could
be extrapolated from current code review tools, which center the code diff-view and
thereby the understanding implementation part of the code review. This design leaves
it up to the developer to plan the review, gather decision-making information, explore
the context, and understand the rationale, thus showing that current tools are not
aligned with all the needs and goals of users.
    The CRDM cognitive model also allows insight into how code review compares to
more well-studied processes such as decision-making, reflection, and learning. Being
able to relate research results from other disciplines through the theoretical model can
inspire future research, give insight into the challenges of code review, and indicate
directions for improvements in code review tools (Section 6.4).


6.1 Insights from Thematic Analysis
Looking at the levels of topics and themes (RQ2 ) gives us insight into the relative
frequency of questions asked during code review. On topic level, the balance is roughly
70/30 between questions with analytical themes and orientational themes; emphasizing
the analytical nature of code review while still pointing out context and orientation
as an imprescriptible part.


                                          28
    At the theme level, questions seeking to understand the implementation, rationale,
and context account for slightly less than half of the total questions asked. These
themes can be related to processes of comprehension, as described by both Letovsky
(1987) and Gonçalves et al. (2025). Also, on this level, these results show that while
comprehension is a very important part of code review, there is more involved to
complete the task. Planning, decision-making, and assessing account for the other
half of the questions asked. Notably, a significant part of the analytical work during
code review consists of selecting next action, which is concerned with planning and
decision-making and in a way is a metacognitive theme.

6.2 Classification of Questions During the Code Review
When analyzing topics and themes as a sequential process during code review (RQ3 ),
we see interesting patterns in how participants move between themes in their questions.
Letovsky (1987) classifies questions asked during a cognitive process into five groups;
Why, How, What, Whether, Discrepancy. From the thematic and sequential analysis,
we see that the first orientation phase is dominated by the Why and What questions
exploring the rationale and context of the code review. In the analytical phase, this
emphasis shifts to How, Whether, and Discrepancy questions that explore how the
code works, whether it could have desired or undesired behaviors, and assessing it for
discrepancies with expectations and code guidelines. That the questions are different
in the two phases we conjecture, also when applying Letovsky’s classification system
in addition to our own thematic coding, supports the division into orientation and
analytical phases.

6.3 Comparison to Previous Models
Existing models for code review focus on and describe the organizational process (Sad-
owski et al., 2018; Bacchelli and Bird, 2013; McIntosh et al., 2016), but to our
knowledge only one model of the cognitive process has been presented; the code review
comprehension model of Gonçalves et al. (2025), which deliberately only models a
part of the entire code review process; comprehending code changes. For this part
of the review, our results support their findings. Especially, the reviewer iteratively
uses information sources, a knowledge base, and their own mental model to drive
comprehension during the code review. The CRDM model then expands the scope
significantly by describing orientation processes before starting to read the changed
code and the recurring decision-making needs throughout the review.

6.4 Future Work
As illustrated in Fig. 14, the CRDM model and the results leading up to the model
can have several applications for future research and development.

Adapting Knowledge from Decision-Making Research
Given the similarities between code review and decision-making processes, code review
tools could learn a lot from decision support systems (DSS). Liu et al. (2010) presents a


                                           29
                                                           Inspiring
                                 Understanding          Future Research
                                  Code Review            on Cognitive
                                   Through a           Processes in Code
                                   Wider Lens               Review



                          Adapting
                         Knowledge                                     Discover
                       from Decision-            CRDM                Potential Tool
                      Making Research            Model              Improvements
                      to Code Review




                                    Support                Aligning
                                  Research on            Code Review
                                  AI-supported          Processes with
                                  Code Review          Developer Needs




Fig. 14 Illustration of potential applications of the CRDM cognitive model. Each surrounding
hexagon represents a potential application of the model, such as adapting knowledge from decision-
making research, improving code review tools, and supporting future research. The center hexagon
represents the CRDM cognitive model itself.


meta-study of over 100 papers on DSS and shows the advantages of Integrated Decision
Support Systems (IDSS) where the decision support is integrated into existing systems
and processes. This would be an interesting way forward for code review tools. For
example, knowledge graph-based or agentic IDSS could be integrated into existing
tools to support developers throughout their workflow and make code review more
effective and efficient.

Discover Potential Tool Improvements
Today’s code review tools come from a legacy of code inspection meetings and have,
on a feature level, not changed much since the first ever software for code review,
ICICLE, was introduced in 1990 (Brothers et al., 1990). By analyzing the needs of
developers during the different steps in the CRDM model, the features of popular code
review tools (GitHub Inc., 2025; Gerrit, 2025), and recent research on misalignment
between code review tools and user goals (Söderberg et al., 2022) we conclude that
today’s code review tools have significant room for improvement.
    Reevaluating code review tools from the lens the CRDM model, or incorporating
ideas and features from DSS software discussed above could give benefits to develop-
ment teams around the world. In particular, the tools’ focus on the code diff view and
inline review comments centers its support mostly around the two themes understand-
ing implementation and assessing implementation. Overall, the orientation phase as
a whole receives less support, and users often choose to leave the code review tool
and look for information in issue tracker, team chat, external documentation, etc., to
better understand the context and rationale.

                                                  30
Support Research on AI-supported Code Review
As discussed in Section 1, more and more research and development in academia
and industry is directed towards supporting or replacing code review with AI models
or agents. Many researchers are calling out the importance of preserving the human
perspective and emphasizing AI technology that supports rather than replaces current
software engineering practices (Russo et al., 2024; Heander et al., 2025). A cognitive
model can be a useful foundation in finding areas where current tools give insufficient
support and where AI models and agents could augment the capabilities of the human
engineers. Training the CRDM model into an agentic workflow could also provide
pre-emptive support and information and guide developers through the code review
task.

Understanding Code Review Through a Wider Lens
In much of the literature today, code review is seen as a process of comprehension and
defect finding. While that is certainly part of the truth, we would like to challenge and
expand this view and treat code review as more closely related to decision-making.
By applying this wider lens, we believe that there are new insights and perspectives
to be found that might, for example, change the way we teach code review to new
developers and the way we design tools.

Aligning Code Review Processes with Developer Needs
As well as misalignments between the developer needs and the tools used, Söderberg
et al. (2022) also finds misalignments between the process itself and responsibilites and
outcomes of code review. Perhaps there are ways to adapt the accepted code review
processes to better match the needs and cognitive process of the developers involved
in the process.

Inspiring Future Research on Cognitive Processes
To our knowledge, few cognitive models of code review have been published today.
We hope by presenting methodology and results from building the CRDM model
that we can inspire future research in studying software engineering processes from a
cognitive lens. Certainly, there are parts of general code review, such as which actions
reviewers take to resolve their questions, that warrant further study. It could also be
illuminating to study code review in different kinds of companies, open source projects,
development methodologies, and team sizes.


7 Threats to Validity
LeCompte and Goetz present a comprehensive investigation of both internal and
external threats to be considered for ethnographic research (LeCompte and Goetz,
1982). They separate threats to reliability, which concerns to what degree the study
is reproducible, and to validity, describing the accuracy of the conclusions in rela-
tion to empirical reality. In the following subsections, we use the threats identified by
LeCompte and Goetz to analyze the threats in this study.


                                           31
7.1 External Reliability
The external reliability of an ethnographic study is affected by position of the
researcher in the study, choices of the informants, social situations and conditions, ana-
lytic constructs and premises, and methods of data collection and analysis (LeCompte
and Goetz, 1982). The researcher conducting the field work has extensive experience
in software engineering and code reviews, contributing to good rapport between the
researcher and the participants. This experience facilitated open sharing of thoughts
and experiences as well as understanding of specific terms, jargon, and practices
(Section 3). In the research team, we also have one more member with long industry
and code review experience, as well as one researcher without industry experience but
with extensive knowledge in human factors, cognition, and interaction studies. This
contributed to building an understanding and theory that is valid from both an insider
and an outsider perspective.
    Regarding informant choices, there is inherent bias in the fact that people who
volunteer to participate in ethnographic research studies are introspective and insight-
ful about their own thinking and actions to a greater degree than the average in
most groups (LeCompte and Goetz, 1982). In our case, choosing to work with the
outward-facing software tools department that collaborates with external open source
communities and with all other internal departments gives a bias towards people who
are communicative, outgoing, and used to describing their work to outsiders. This
increased the depth and detail we could achieve in our collected data. We think the
risk that less extroverted participants would follow a fundamentally different code
review process is small.
    All participants and teams in this study have strong similarities (Section 3.2).
Developers with, for example, a different cultural and educational background working
in large teams using waterfall methodology might have a different approach to code
reviews. We have tried to mitigate this risk by actively choosing participants ranging
from inexperienced to very experienced and with different roles in their teams.
    The social context and setting for the code reviews were at the developers’ reg-
ular workplace, on their own computer, monitor, and desk to create conditions for
realistic results. Our analytical constructs are based on our constructivist epistemo-
logical view, as well as the process codes used to encode the transcripts (Section 3).
The process codes follow accepted coding practices and are published in the replica-
tion package, see Section 9 Finally, data collection and analysis were performed using
common practices in qualitative studies, such as audio recording, transcription, pro-
cess coding, and statistical analysis (Charmaz, 2014; Saldaña, 2015). Transcribing the
recorded interviews carry the risk of subtly shifting the meaning, since spoken and
written language is interpreted slightly differently and the transcriptions lack prosody
and tone of voice. We mitigated this by adding notes in the transcription where the
meaning would otherwise be ambiguous.


7.2 Internal Reliability
The internal reliability of an ethnographic study is affected by low-inference descrip-
tors, multiple researchers, participant researchers, peer examination, and mechanically


                                           32
recorded data (LeCompte and Goetz, 1982). To achieve low-inference descriptors, the
source materials for analysis in the study were verbatim transcriptions of the recorded
code review sessions with little to no inference. Multiple researchers were involved in
the interpretation of the data. Two researchers independently did the thematic cod-
ing of the material. All three researchers discussed process coding, thematic coding,
and topics until agreement (Saldaña, 2015). The process coding and its interpreta-
tion were further verified with the participants through a member-checking workshop
(Section 3.4.2). For peer examination, we note that Gonçalves et al. (2025) describes
a process, albeit within a more narrow scope, that confirms our model in the parts
where they overlap. Finally, data were recorded using digital dictaphones for voice
clarity, and the original recordings are archived at the university.

7.3 External Validity
The external validity of an ethnographic study is affected by selection effects, setting
effects, history effects, and construct effects (LeCompte and Goetz, 1982). To address
selection effects, we selected participants with different age, experience, and roles,
but working for the same company and team. They follow the same or very similar
code review guidelines. This contributes to results from different participants being
comparable. Since the observations were carried out in the same office with members
of the same development team, the settings were very similar. We think that the social
effects of the setting, group, and researcher are comparable between the interviews.
Regarding history effects and construct effects, all participants have a comparable
cultural and educational background, which contributes to the validity of comparing
their data. Further, the same process-coding and thematic coding was used for all
recordings and participants, again contributing to comparability between participants.

7.4 Internal Validity
The internal validity of an ethnographic study is affected by history and matu-
ration, observer effects, selection and regression, mortality, and spurious conclu-
sions (LeCompte and Goetz, 1982). In relation to history and maturation, code review
was a well established and mature practice in the development team that participated
in the study, and their guidelines remained the same throughout the field work. We
may have had observer effects in that participants might have put in more effort than
usual into the code reviews. That is, participants may have spent more time in code
review and may have been more meticulous with comments and approvals, to be per-
ceived as competent by the researcher and their peers. During field work, we tried to
mitigate observer effects by being neutral and curious about any approach the partic-
ipants took. While we did select as diverse participants as possible from the members
of the participating development teams, they do have similar cultural and educational
backgrounds. It cannot be ruled out that participants with different culture, educa-
tion, role, employer, role, etc. would also have different strategies during code review.
No participants left the study (or the team) during the field work. Finally, conclusions
and theories were built bottom-up from the results of thematic and statistical analysis
to avoid drawing spurious conclusions from our field observations.


                                           33
8 Conclusions
We studied questions asked during code review using an ethnographic think-aloud
study combined with interviews (Section 3). The study included 10 participants and a
total of 34 code reviews. We performed thematic analysis of the transcribed interviews
followed by temporal and sequential analysis. Through this analysis, we discovered
patterns in the kinds of questions that reviewers asked during code reviews; when the
questions were asked, and how the questions connected to each other.
    From our thematic analysis we identified 2 topics containing a total of 7 themes
(Fig. 7). Temporal and sequential analysis indicates that code review can be modeled
by two phases (Section 5), a linear orientation phase (Fig. 11) followed by an iterative
analytical phase (Fig. 12). During the orientation phase, the reviewer seeks informa-
tion about the expectations, rationale, and context of the code change within and
outside the code review tool. Once those factors are understood, the reviewer enters
the assessment phase. Here, they iterate by seeking to understand the implementation,
assessing the change, assessing the implementation, and planning their next action
until the code review is finished.
    The similarities in the dynamics during these two phases with decision-making pro-
cesses in general, and in particular the RPD model defined by Klein (1998), lead us to
propose the Code Review as Decision-Making (CRDM) cognitive model (Section 5.2).
In this model, we reframe code review as a decision-making process, providing new
perspectives on the practice, its effects, avenues for future research, and ideas on how
tools can evolve to support code review in a better way.


9 Notes
Acknowledgments. The authors would like to thank the following funders who
partly funded this work: the Swedish strategic research environment ELLIIT, the
Swedish Foundation for Strategic Research (grant nbr. FFL18-0231), the Swedish
Research Council (grant nbr. 2019-05658), and the Wallenberg AI, Autonomous Sys-
tems and Software Program (WASP) funded by the Knut and Alice Wallenberg
Foundation. The authors also thank the study participants for their enthusiastic
collaboration and open sharing of their thoughts and knowledge.

Author contributions. All authors contributed to the conception and design of the
study. The first author performed material preparation, data collection, transcription,
data analysis, data visualization, and illustration. All authors contributed to the the-
matic analysis of the transcribed data. The first draft of the manuscript was written
by the first author and all authors commented on previous versions of the manuscript.
All authors read and approved the final manuscript.

Data availability. Anonymized data on the level of process coding that support
the findings of this study are openly available in the replication package below. Due
to sensitivity reasons, full recordings and transcriptions are not openly available and
are available from the corresponding author upon reasonable request.


                                          34
Code availability. The program code for data analysis is available in the replication
package at: https://doi.org/10.5281/zenodo.15758266



References
Ajzen I (1991) The theory of planned behavior. Organizational Behavior and Human
  Decision Processes 50(2):179–211. https://doi.org/10.1016/0749-5978(91)90020-T

Bacchelli A, Bird C (2013) Expectations, outcomes, and challenges of modern code
  review. In: 2013 35th International Conference on Software Engineering (ICSE), pp
  712–721, https://doi.org/10.1109/ICSE.2013.6606617

Bird C, Ford D, Zimmermann T, et al (2023) Taking flight with copilot: Early insights
  and opportunities of AI-powered pair-programming tools. Queue 20(6):35–57. https:
  //doi.org/10.1145/3582083, place: New York, NY, USA Publisher: Association for
  Computing Machinery

Birt L, Scott S, Cavers D, et al (2016) Member Checking: A Tool to Enhance
  Trustworthiness or Merely a Nod to Validation? Qualitative Health Research
  26(13):1802–1811. https://doi.org/10.1177/1049732316654870

Bosu A, Carver JC (2013) Impact of peer code review on peer impression formation:
  A survey. In: 2013 ACM/IEEE International Symposium on Empirical Software
  Engineering and Measurement, IEEE, pp 133–142, https://doi.org/10.1109/ESEM.
  2013.23

Bosu A, Greiler M, Bird C (2015) Characteristics of Useful Code Reviews: An Empir-
  ical Study at Microsoft. In: 2015 IEEE/ACM 12th Working Conference on Mining
  Software Repositories, pp 146–156, https://doi.org/10.1109/MSR.2015.21

Braun V, Clarke V (2006) Using thematic analysis in psychology. Qualitative Research
  in Psychology 3(2):77–101. https://doi.org/10.1191/1478088706qp063oa

Brothers L, Sembugamoorthy V, Muller M (1990) ICICLE: Groupware for Code
  Inspection. In: Proceedings of the 1990 ACM Conference on Computer-Supported
  Cooperative Work. Association for Computing Machinery, New York, NY, USA,
  CSCW ’90, pp 169–181, https://doi.org/10.1145/99332.99353, event-place: Los
  Angeles, California, USA

Charmaz K (2014) Constructing grounded theory, 2nd edn. Introducing qualitative
  methods, Sage, London, UK

Chouchen M, Ouni A, Kula RG, et al (2021) Anti-patterns in modern code review:
  Symptoms and prevalence. In: 2021 IEEE International Conference on Software
  Analysis, Evolution and Reengineering (SANER), pp 531–535, https://doi.org/10.
  1109/SANER50967.2021.00060


                                         35
Clarke V, Braun V (2017) Thematic analysis. The Journal of Positive Psychology
  12(3):297–298. https://doi.org/10.1080/17439760.2016.1262613

Coelho F, Tsantalis N, Massoni T, et al (2025) A qualitative study on refactorings
  induced by code review. Empirical Software Engineering 30(1):17. https://doi.org/
  10.1007/s10664-024-10560-7

Davila N, Nunes I (2021) A systematic literature review and taxonomy of modern
  code review. Journal of Systems and Software 177:110951. https://doi.org/10.1016/
  j.jss.2021.110951

Dekker SW (2002) Reconstructing human contributions to accidents: the new view on
  error and performance. Journal of safety research 33(3):371–385. https://doi.org/
  10.1016/S0022-4375(02)00032-4

DORA (2023) Accelerate state of devops 2023. Tech. rep., DORA, URL https://dora.
 dev/research/2023/dora-report/

DORA (2024) Accelerate state of devops 2024. Tech. rep., DORA, URL https://dora.
 dev/research/2024/dora-report/

Dorner M, Mendez D, Wnuk K, et al (2025) The upper bound of information diffusion
 in code review. Empirical Software Engineering 30(1):2. https://doi.org/10.1007/
 s10664-024-10442-y

Doğan E, Tüzün E (2022) Towards a taxonomy of code review smells. Information
 and Software Technology 142:106737. https://doi.org/10.1016/j.infsof.2021.106737

Dourish P (2001) Where the action is: the foundations of embodied interaction. MIT
 Press, Cambridge, Mass.

Froemmgen A, Austin J, Choy P, et al (2024) Resolving code review comments with
  machine learning. In: Proceedings of the 46th International Conference on Software
  Engineering: Software Engineering in Practice. ACM, pp 204–215, https://doi.org/
  10.1145/3639477.3639746

Gerrit (2025)   User    guide.    URL     https://gerrit-review.googlesource.com/
 Documentation/intro-user.html, accessed 2025-02-27

GitHub Inc. (2025) Github code review. URL https://github.com/features/
  code-review, accessed 2025-02-27

Gonçalves PW, Fregnan E, Baum T, et al (2022) Do explicit review strategies improve
 code review performance? towards understanding the role of cognitive load. Empir-
 ical Software Engineering 27(4):99. https://doi.org/10.1007/s10664-022-10123-8

Gonçalves PW, Rani P, Storey MA, et al (2025) Code review comprehension: Review-
 ing strategies seen through code comprehension theories. In: 2025 IEEE/ACM


                                        36
  33rd International Conference on Program Comprehension (ICPC), pp 589–601,
  https://doi.org/10.1109/ICPC66645.2025.00068

Heander L, Söderberg E, Rydenfält C (2024) Design of flexible code block comparisons
  to improve code review of refactored code. In: Companion Proceedings of the 8th
  International Conference on the Art, Science, and Engineering of Programming, pp
  57–67, https://doi.org/10.1145/3660829.3660842

Heander L, Söderberg E, Rydenfält C (2025) Support, not automation: Towards AI-
  supported code review for code quality and beyond. In: In 33rd ACM International
  Conference on the Foundations of Software Engineering (FSE Companion ’25),
  https://doi.org/10.1145/3696630.3728505

Klein G (1998) Sources of Power : How People Make Decisions. The MIT Press,
  Cambridge, Mass., USA

Krause-Glau A, Damerau L, Hansen M, et al (2024) Visual integration of static and
  dynamic software analysis in code reviews via software city visualization. https:
  //doi.org/10.48550/ARXIV.2408.08141, version Number: 1

Kudrjavets G, Kumar A, Nagappan N, et al (2022) Mining code review data to
 understand waiting times between acceptance and merging: An empirical anal-
 ysis. In: Proceedings of the 19th International Conference on Mining Software
 Repositories. Association for Computing Machinery, MSR ’22, pp 579–590, https:
 //doi.org/10.1145/3524842.3528432, event-place: Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania

LeCompte MD, Goetz JP (1982) Problems of reliability and validity in ethnographic
  research. Review of Educational Research 52(1):31–60. https://doi.org/10.3102/
  00346543052001031

Lee CS, Hicks CM (2024) Understanding and effectively mitigating code review
  anxiety. Empirical Software Engineering 29(6):161. https://doi.org/10.1007/
  s10664-024-10550-9

Letovsky S (1987) Cognitive processes in program comprehension. Journal of Systems
  and Software 7(4):325–339. https://doi.org/10.1016/0164-1212(87)90032-X

Liu S, Duffy AHB, Whitfield RI, et al (2010) Integration of decision support sys-
  tems to improve decision support performance. Knowledge and Information Systems
  22(3):261–286. https://doi.org/10.1007/s10115-009-0192-4

Lu J, Yu L, Li X, et al (2023) LLaMA-reviewer: Advancing code review automation
  with large language models through parameter-efficient fine-tuning. In: 2023 IEEE
  34th International Symposium on Software Reliability Engineering (ISSRE), pp
  647–658, https://doi.org/10.1109/ISSRE59848.2023.00026




                                         37
MacLeod L, Greiler M, Storey MA, et al (2018) Code Reviewing in the Trenches: Chal-
 lenges and Best Practices. IEEE Software 35(4):34–42. https://doi.org/10.1109/MS.
 2017.265100500

McIntosh S, Kamei Y, Adams B, et al (2016) An empirical study of the impact of
 modern code review practices on software quality. Empirical Software Engineering
 21(5):2146–2189. https://doi.org/10.1007/s10664-015-9381-9

Pascarella L, Spadini D, Palomba F, et al (2018) Information Needs in Contem-
  porary Code Review. Proceedings of the ACM on Human-Computer Interaction
  2(CSCW):1–27. https://doi.org/10.1145/3274404

Rosenberger R, Verbeek PP (2015) A field guide to postphenomenology. Postphe-
  nomenological investigations: Essays on human-technology relations pp 9–41

Russo D, Baltes S, Van Berkel N, et al (2024) Generative AI in Software Engineer-
 ing Must Be Human-Centered: The Copenhagen Manifesto. Journal of Systems
 and Software 216:112115. https://doi.org/10.1016/j.jss.2024.112115, URL https:
 //linkinghub.elsevier.com/retrieve/pii/S0164121224001602, publisher: Elsevier BV

Sadowski C, Söderberg E, Church L, et al (2018) Modern code review: A case study
  at google. In: Proceedings of the 40th International Conference on Software Engi-
  neering: Software Engineering in Practice. Association for Computing Machinery,
  New York, NY, USA, ICSE-SEIP ’18, pp 181–190, https://doi.org/10.1145/3183519.
  3183525

Saldaña J (2015) The coding manual for qualitative researchers, 3rd edn. Sage
  Publications, Thousand Oaks, CA

Sharp H, Dittrich Y, de Souza CRB (2016) The Role of Ethnographic Studies
  in Empirical Software Engineering. IEEE Transactions on Software Engineering
  42(8):786–804. https://doi.org/10.1109/TSE.2016.2519887

Simon HA (1955) A behavioral model of rational choice. The Quarterly Journal of
  Economics 69(1):99–118. URL http://www.jstor.org/stable/1884852

Simon HA (1996) The sciences of the artificial, 3rd edn. MIT Press, Cambridge, MA

Söderberg E, Church L, Börstler J, et al (2022) Understanding the Experience of Code
   Review: Misalignments, Attention, and Units of Analysis. In: Proceedings of the
   International Conference on Evaluation and Assessment in Software Engineering
   2022. Association for Computing Machinery, EASE ’22, pp 170–179, https://doi.
   org/10.1145/3530019.3530037

Statistia (2025) Number of software developers worldwide in 2018 to 2024. URL https:
  //www.statista.com/statistics/627312/worldwide-developer-population/, accessed
  2025-01-15


                                         38
Tang X, Kim K, Song Y, et al (2024) CodeAgent: Autonomous communicative agents
  for code review. In: Proceedings of the 2024 Conference on Empirical Methods in
  Natural Language Processing. Association for Computational Linguistics, pp 11279–
  11313, https://doi.org/10.18653/v1/2024.emnlp-main.632

Tversky A, Kahneman D (1974) Judgment under uncertainty: Heuristics and biases:
  Biases in judgments reveal some heuristics of thinking under uncertainty. science
  185(4157):1124–1131. https://doi.org/10.1126/science.185.4157.1124

Tversky A, Kahneman D (1981) The framing of decisions and the psychology of choice.
  science 211(4481):453–458. https://doi.org/10.1126/science.7455683

Unterkalmsteiner M, Badampudi D, Britto R, et al (2024) Help me to understand
 this commit!-a vision for contextualized code reviews. In: Proceedings of the 1st
 ACM/IEEE Workshop on Integrated Development Environments, pp 18–23, https:
 //doi.org/10.1145/3643796.3648447

Williamson K (2006) Research in constructivist frameworks using ethnographic
 techniques. Library Trends 55(1):83–101. https://doi.org/10.1353/lib.2006.0054

Yu Y, Rong G, Shen H, et al (2024) Fine-tuning large language models to improve
  accuracy and comprehensibility of automated code review. ACM Trans Softw Eng
  Methodol 34(1). https://doi.org/10.1145/3695993




                                        39
