                                         Noname manuscript No.
                                         (will be inserted by the editor)




                                         More Than React: Investigating The Role of Emoji
                                         Reaction in GitHub Pull Requests

                                         Dong Wang     · Tao Xiao · Teyon Son ·
                                         Raula Gaikovina Kula · Takashi Ishio ·
                                         Yasutaka Kamei · Kenichi Matsumoto




                                         Received: date / Accepted: date
arXiv:2307.07111v1 [cs.SE] 14 Jul 2023




                                         Abstract Open source software development has become more social and
                                         collaborative, evident GitHub. Since 2016, GitHub started to support more
                                         informal methods such as emoji reactions, with the goal to reduce comment-
                                         ing noise when reviewing any code changes to a repository. From a code review
                                         context, the extent to which emoji reactions facilitate a more efficient review
                                         process is unknown. We conduct an empirical study to mine 1,850 active repos-
                                         itories across seven popular languages to analyze 365,811 Pull Requests (PRs)
                                         for their emoji reactions against the review time, first-time contributors, com-
                                         ment intentions, and the consistency of the sentiments. Answering these four
                                         research perspectives, we first find that the number of emoji reactions has a
                                         significant correlation with the review time. Second, our results show that a PR
                                         submitted by a first-time contributor is less likely to receive emoji reactions.
                                         Third, the results reveal that the comments with an intention of information
                                         giving, are more likely to receive an emoji reaction. Fourth, we observe that
                                         only a small proportion of sentiments are not consistent between comments
                                         and emoji reactions, i.e., with 11.8% of instances being identified. In these
                                         cases, the prevalent reason is when reviewers cheer up authors that admit
                                         to a mistake, i.e., acknowledge a mistake. Apart from reducing commenting
                                         noise, our work suggests that emoji reactions play a positive role in facilitating
                                         collaborative communication during the review process.

                                         Keywords Emoji Reaction, Code Reviews, Mining Software Repositories

                                           Corresponding author - Dong Wang
                                         Kyushu University, Japan.
                                         E-mail: d.wang@ait.kyushu-u.ac.jp
                                         Tao Xiao, Teyon Son, Raula Gaikovina Kula, Takashi Ishio, Kenichi Matsumoto
                                         Nara Institute of Science and Technology, Japan.
                                         E-mail: {tao.xiao.ts2,son.teyon.sr7,raula-k,ishio,matumoto}@is.naist.jp
                                         Yasutaka Kamei
                                         Kyushu University, Japan. E-mail: kamei@ait.kyushu-u.ac.jp
2                                                                   Dong Wang     et al.


1 Introduction

In the past few years, open source software development has become more
social and collaborative. Known as social coding, open source development
promotes formal and informal collaboration by empowering the exchange of
knowledge between developers (Dabbish et al., 2012). GitHub, one of the most
popular social coding platforms, attracts more than 72 million developers col-
laborating across 233 million repositories.1 Since 2016, GitHub introduced a
new social function called “reaction” for developers to quickly express their
feeling in an issue report and a pull request (PR). Especially for discussing a
PR, we find that2 :
        “In many cases, especially on popular projects, the result is a long thread
        full of emoji and not much content, which makes it difficult to have
        a discussion. With reactions, you can now reduce the noise in these
        threads” - GitHub
    In the context of code review, we assume that a thread full of emoji re-
actions may also have ulterior intentions (e.g., confusion or conflicts) during
the code review process. For instance, Ebert et al. (2019) pointed out that
confusion delays the merge decision decreases review quality, and results in
additional discussions. Hirao et al. (2020) found that patches can receive both
positive and negative scores due to the disagreement between reviewers, which
leads to conflicts in the review process. Figure 1 depicts two typical cases where
the emoji reactions occur. Figure 1(a) shows the case where the reaction does
reduce unnecessary commenting in the thread. The example illustrates how
Author B reduces the commenting by simply reacting with a quick expression
of approval through THUMBS UP . In contrast, as shown in Figure 1(b), there
exists a case where the emoji usage has an ulterior intention and does not re-
duce comments in the discussion thread. In detail, Contributor D uses three
positive emoji reactions (THUMBS UP , HOORAY , and HEART ) to represent
the appreciation to this PR. Later the contributor goes on to provide detailed
comments on the PR. We posit that the intention of the emoji reaction was to
express appreciation for the PR, and did not reduce the amount of commenting
in the threads.
    As per our registered report (Son et al., 2021), positive emoji reactions are
been widely used in PRs and do not always reduce the commenting noise. We
now execute the study protocols to address four research questions, using a
statistical sample of 1,850 repositories with 365,811 PRs across seven popular
languages. The goal of the study is to investigate the role of emoji reactions
in the context of code review from different perspectives. RQ1 is from the
view of the review process, while RQ2 is from the human (i.e., contributor)
perspective. Finally, RQ3 and RQ4 take a deeper analysis of the context of
the comments between the review team. We now present the details of each
research question below:
    1   https://github.com/search,2021
    2   https://tinyurl.com/3rpdr6dp
Title Suppressed Due to Excessive Length                                            3


             Contributor A




                             Author B reacted with thumbs up emoji
                        Author B




                    (a) Example of emoji reaction reduce commenting noise.

                              Author C




                                           Contributor D reacted with
                                                  hooray emoji


         Contributor D reacted with                 Contributor D reacted with
             thumbs up emoji                               heart emoji
                                                                   ...
                                                                   ... 7 comments
                                                                   ...
                         Contributor D


                               @Author C



                                         Author C



            (b) Example of emoji reaction does not reduce commenting noise.

Fig. 1 Examples of emoji reactions used in GitHub.



 – RQ1: Does the emoji reaction used in the review discussion cor-
   relate with review time?
   Motivation. Prior studies (Baysal et al., 2016; Kononenko et al., 2018)
   have widely analyzed the impact of technical and non-technical factors on
   the review process (e.g., review outcome, review time). However, little is
   known about whether or not the emoji reaction can be correlated with the
   review time. It is possible that emoji reaction may shorten the review time,
   as it could reduce the noise during the review discussions. Thus, our moti-
   vation for the first research question is to explore the correlation between
   the emoji reaction used in the review discussion and review time.
 – RQ2: Does a PR submitted by a first-time contributor receive
   more emoji reactions?
   Motivation. We find that the emoji reaction might be used to express ap-
   preciation for submitting a PR. Our motivation for this research question
   is to understand if contributors that have never submitted to the project
   before receive more emoji reactions. Furthermore, answering this research
4                                                            Dong Wang     et al.


   question will provide insights into a potent ulterior motive for an emoji
   reaction. Our hypothesis is that H1: PRs submitted by first-time contrib-
   utors receive more emoji reactions. We assume that existing contributors
   could express positive feelings to attract newcomers to the project.
 – RQ3: What is the relationship between the intention of comments
   and their emoji reaction?
   Motivation. As shown in Figure 1, emoji reactions may not always reduce
   the commenting noise. Hence, our motivation for the third research ques-
   tion is to explore the relationship between the intention of comments and
   their emoji reactions. Our hypothesis is that (H2): There is a significant
   relationship between comment intentions and emoji reaction kinds. We as-
   sume that a specific comment intention may explain the ulterior purpose
   of reacting with an emoji reaction.
 – RQ4: Is emoji reaction consistent with comment sentiment?
   Motivation. The RQ3 results reveal that specific sentiments of the emoji
   (i.e., THUMBS UP ) are widely used in PRs. Inspired by this, our motivation
   for this research question is to investigate whether there is any inconsis-
   tency between sentiments of the comments and sentiments of the emoji
   reactions. Furthermore, we manually check the reasons why inconsistency
   happened. We believe answering RQ4 would help newcomers better under-
   stand the emoji usage in the PR discussion. Our hypothesis is that (H3):
   There is a significant relationship between comment sentiments and emoji
   reaction sentiments. We assume that a specific comment sentiment may
   explain the ulterior purpose of reacting with an emoji.

    Our results of each research question are summarized as follows. For RQ1,
our regression model shows that the number of emoji reactions has a significant
correlation with the review time and furthermore PRs with emoji reactions
overall tend to take a longer review time than PRs with no emoji reactions.
For RQ2, the quantitative results show that a PR submitted by a first-time
contributor is less likely to receive emoji reactions, being 10.4% of PRs. For
RQ3, we observe that the PR comments with the intention of information giv-
ing are more likely to receive emoji reactions. Moreover, the positive THUMBS
UP (67.2% on average) is widely used, while the negative emoji reactions are
rarely used (0.5% to 1.5%). For RQ4, our results show that Positive–Negative
pair-wise of sentiment inconsistency accounts for 11.8% and the most frequent
inconsistency reason is to acknowledge a mistake. These results suggest that
the usage of emoji reactions might be a sign of an already positive environment
and could have the potential to reduce toxicity. Our study demonstrates the
crucial role that emoji reactions play in facilitating collaborative communica-
tion during the review process.
    The remainder of this paper is organized as follows. Section 2 describes
the dataset preparation. Section 3 presents the results of our empirical study,
including the approaches for research questions, while Section 4 discusses the
findings and their implications. Section 5 discloses the threats to validity and
Section 6 presents the related work. Section 7 discusses the deviations between
Title Suppressed Due to Excessive Length                                                           5


the execution and the registered report. Finally, we conclude the paper in
Section 8.


2 Dataset Preparation

In this section, we present our dataset that was collected for our experiments.

Studied Repositories. We expand on our studied dataset from the active
software development repositories shared by Hata et al. (2019). Specifically,
each repository has more than 500 commits and at least 100 commits during
the most active two-year period. In total, 25,925 repositories were contained
across seven popular languages (i.e., C, C++, Java, JavaScript, Python, PHP,
and Ruby). Since we focus on the pull request, we did further filtering to collect
the repository candidates that actively perform code review activities. To do
so, we automatically examined repositories whether they have at least 100 PRs
after the GitHub emoji reaction was introduced to the community (Mar. 10,
2016), relying on GitHub GraphQL API.3 After this, 6,695 repositories met
the selection criteria.
    However, it is impossible to retrieve the PR metadata for all these reposi-
tories due to the limited time-frame and the restriction of GitHub API down-
loading. We then draw a representative repository sample, taking the seven
popular languages into account. With a confidence level of 95% and a confi-
dence interval of 5,4 1,850 representative repositories were finally selected as
shown in Table 1 (i.e., 217 C repositories, 258 C++ repositories, 290 Java
repositories, 310 JavaScript repositories, 246 PHP repositories, 300 Python
repositories, and 229 Ruby repositories.)

Data Collection and Cleaning. For the selected 1,850 repositories, we then
used GraphQL API to retrieve all PRs that were submitted between January
2020 and April 2022. We argue that the more recent PRs, the more emojis
will be reacted to PR comments. Sufficient metadata was collected including
PR title, PR status, PR author, created time, closed time, and comments.
 3   https://docs.github.com/en/graphql
 4   https://www.surveysystem.com/sscalc.htm



Table 1 Summary of Studied Dataset Statistics. E.R. refers to Emoji Reaction.

              # Repos.   # PRs     # PRs with E.R.    # PR Comments     # PR Comments with E.R.
 C                 217    50,847      7,330 (14.4%)          177,540               11,377 (6.4%)
 C++               258    70,877     10,920 (15.4%)          253,062               18,804 (7.4%)
 Java              290    69,473       6,853 (9.9%)          219,477               11,102 (5.1%)
 JavaScript        310    36,135      4,467 (12.4%)           82,623                6,591 (8.0%)
 Python            300    53,996      5,893 (10.9%)          158,535                8,967 (5.7%)
 PHP               246    49,680      9,165 (18.4%)          207,345               15,871 (7.7%)
 Ruby              229    34,803      4,832 (13.9%)           89,996                7,906 (8.8%)
 Total           1,850   365,811     49,460 (13.5%)         1,188,578              80,618 (6.8%)
6                                                              Dong Wang     et al.


For each comment in a PR, we collected its commenters and emoji reactions.
In all, 554,112 PRs with 1,697,305 comments were retrieved from these 1,850
repositories across seven languages.
    We then did two filters to ensure the quality of the studied PRs. First,
we excluded PRs that were labeled as open status, since we can not calculate
the review time of these PRs. The second filter is to exclude the PRs that
were submitted by bots. To do so, we referred to the work of Golzadeh et al.
(2022), which systematically compares the performance of the existing bot
detection techniques, and we leveraged the combination of two bot detection
techniques with the highest precision known as “bot” suffix and list of bots.
“bot” suffix refers to the technique that relies on the presence of the string
“bot” at the end of the author’s name, which has notably been used by other
researches (Dey et al., 2020; Saadat et al., 2021). The list of bots denotes
the technique that relies on a predefined list of ground-truth bots manually
identified by Golzadeh et al. (2021). After the cleaning, 365,811 PRs were left
with 1,188,578 PR comments. As shown in Table 1, 13.5% of PRs across seven
languages contain at least one emoji reaction. 80,618 PR comments are reacted
with emojis, accounting for 6.8%.


3 Empirical Results

In this section, we present the results for each of our research questions as well
as their motivations and approaches.


3.1 Review Time and Emoji Reactions (RQ1)

Approach. To answer RQ1, we perform a statistical analysis to investigate
the correlation between the PR review time and the emoji reaction kinds,
using a non-linear regression model. Align with the prior work (Wang et al.,
2021b,a; Kononenko et al., 2018), several confounding factors are taken into
account. Similarly, the goal of our statistical analysis is not to predict the
review time but to understand the associations between the emoji reaction
and the review time. The review time is defined as the time interval between
pull request creation date and closed date, in hours, referring to the work of
Maddila et al. (2019).
   Explanatory Variables. Table 2 presents the 14 studied explanatory vari-
ables that are used in our non-linear regression model. Since we investigate
the effect of the emoji reaction, we introduce two related variables: With
emoji reaction (Whether or not a PR contains any emoji reactions, binary)
and # Emoji reactions (The number of emoji reactions in a PR). Previ-
ous research suggests a group of different metrics that can affect code review
time (Kononenko et al., 2018; Wang et al., 2021b) and we select 12 variables
that are governed by our ability to accurately calculate their value from the
data. For the PR purpose, similar to the prior work (Thongtanunam et al.,
Title Suppressed Due to Excessive Length                                              7


Table 2 The studied explanatory variables in RQ1.

    Confounding variables      Description
    # Added lines              The number of added LOC by a PR.
    # Deleted lines            The number of deleted LOC by a PR.
    PR size                    The total number of added and deleted LOC by a PR.
    Purpose                    The purpose of a PR, i.e., bug, document, feature.
    Language                   The repository language that a PR belongs to.
    # Files                    The number of files changed by a PR.
    # Commits                  The number of commits involved in a PR.
    Description length         The length of a PR description.
    PR author experience       The number of prior PRs that were submitted by the
                               PR author.
    # Comments                 The number of comments left on a PR.
    # Author comments          The number of comments left by the PR author.
    # Reviewer comments        The number of comments left by the reviewers who
                               participate in the discussion.
    # Reviewers                The number of developers who participate in the dis-
                               cussion.
    Emoji reaction variables   Description
    With emoji reaction        Whether or not a PR contains any emoji reactions
                               (binary).
    # Emoji reactions          The number of emoji reactions in a PR.




2017; McIntosh et al., 2014), a PR is classified as documentation if the de-
scription contains ‘doc’, ‘copyright’, or ‘license’ words, while a PR is classified
as bug fixing if the description contains ‘fix’, ‘bug’, or ‘defect’ words. The rest
of the PRs are classified as feature introduction.
    Model Construction. To reduce the potential threat resulting from the im-
balanced data, we randomly select 49,460 PRs without any emoji reactions,
which are equal to the number of PRs with emoji reactions (as shown in Ta-
ble 1). That is, a total of 98,920 PRs are used in our model construction. To
analyze the association between the emoji reaction and review time, we adopt
the Ordinary Least Squares (OLS) multiple regression model. This regres-
sion model allows us to fit the nonlinear relationship between the dependent
variables and the explanatory variables. We carefully follow the construction
approach provided by Harrell Jr. et al. (1984) and Mcintosh et al. (2016), con-
sisting of five steps. In step (I) Estimating budget for degrees of freedom, as
                                                                      n
suggested by Harrell Jr. et al. (1984), we spend no more than 15         degrees of
freedom in our OLS model, where n refers to the number of studied PRs in
the dataset. In step (II) Normality adjustment, we analyze whether the distri-
bution of review time is skewed using the skewness and kurtosis function of
the moments R package, since OLS expects that the dependent variables are
normally distributed. If the review time is skewed, we use a log transforma-
tion to lessen the skew so as to better fit OLS (Mcintosh et al., 2016). In step
(III) Correlation and redundancy analysis, similar to the prior work, we use
the Spearman rank correlation (ρ) to assess the correlation between each pair
of variables, since highly correlated explanatory variables could interfere with
8                                                              Dong Wang     et al.


each other and further lead to spurious conclusions. We repeat the process un-
til the Spearman correlation coefficient values of all pairs of variables are less
than 0.7. In addition, to ensure that each studied variable provides a unique
signal, we use the redun function of the rms R package to detect redundant
variables and remove them from the model. In step (IV) Allocating degrees of
freedom, we rely on the spearman2 function of the rms R package to calculate
the Spearman multiple ρ2 between the explanatory and dependent variables,
and effectively allocate degrees of freedom to the remaining variables. To avoid
the over-fitting issue, we only allocate three to five degrees of freedom to those
variables with high ρ2 values. In step (V) Fitting OLS models, similar to the
work (Mcintosh et al., 2016), we use restricted cubic splines to fit our mod-
eled dataset. We assign the allocated degrees of freedom to each explanatory
variable, using the rcs function of the rms R package. Last, we adopt the ols
function to construct the model.
     Model Analysis. After the model construction, we analyze the model to
assess its goodness and examine the relationship between the review time and
the emoji reaction. Similar to the prior work (Mcintosh et al., 2016; Wang
et al., 2021b), we analyze the model using the following three steps: (I) As-
sessing model stability, (II) Estimating the power of explanatory variables, and
(III) Examining relationship. In step (I), we use an adjusted R2 value (Hastie
et al., 2009) to evaluate our model. In order to avoid the overfitted model,
we apply the bootstrap validation approach to estimate the optimism of the
adjusted R2 . Finally, we subtract the average R2 optimism from the initial
adjusted R2 value to obtain the optimism-reduced adjusted R2 . In step (II),
we estimate the power of explanatory variables and their corresponding sig-
nificance, using Wald χ2 maximum likelihood tests provided by the anova
function. In step (III), we examine the direction of the relationship between
the explanatory variables (especially emoji reaction related variables) and the
review time, using the Predict function of the rms package.
Results. We now discuss the RQ1 results in the view of model construction
and model analysis.
    Model Construction. Table 3 shows the model performance and statistics of
the studied variables that are adopted in the regression model. In the correla-
tion and redundancy analysis, we remove those explanatory variables that are
highly correlated with one another (ρ value is greater than 0.7), i.e., PR size,
#Added lines, # Comments, # Reviewers, and With Emoji Reaction. For the
remaining explanatory variables, we do not find any redundant variable, i.e.,
the variable that has a fit with an R2 greater than 0.9. We then carefully allo-
cated the degrees of freedom to the surviving variables, based on their potential
for sharing a nonlinear relationship with the dependent variable. As shown in
the table, 24 degrees of freedom were spent on our constructed models.
    Model Analysis. We first examine the goodness of our model fit. Table 3
shows that the model achieves an adjusted R2 score of 0.2830. Similar to the
prior work (Kononenko et al., 2018), such an adjusted R2 score is acceptable as
our model is supposed to be explanatory not for the predictive purpose. After
Title Suppressed Due to Excessive Length                                            9


Table 3 PR review time model statistics (RQ1). Among studied emoji reaction variables,
# Emoji Reactions have a significant correlation with PR review time.
                                  PR Review Time
               Adjusted R2                           0.2830
               Optimism-reduced adjusted R2          0.2826
               Overall Wald χ2                       17,690
               Spent Degrees of Freedom                24
               Confounding Variables           Overall    Nonlinear
                                       D. F.
               PR Size                                  †
                                       χ2
                                       D. F.
               # Added lines                            †
                                       χ2
                                       D. F.         1
               #Deleted lines                                     -
                                       χ2       2.0∗∗∗
                                       D. F.         2
               Purpose                                            -
                                       χ2      15.3∗∗∗
                                       D. F.         1
               # Files                                            -
                                       χ2          1.5
                                       D. F.         1
               Language                                           -
                                       χ2     950.6∗∗∗
                                       D. F.         2            1
               # Commits
                                       χ2    2960.0∗∗∗ 2950.5∗∗∗
                                       D. F.         2            1
               Description length
                                       χ2    1338.4∗∗∗     954.0∗∗∗
                                       D. F.         1
               PR author Exp.                                     -
                                       χ2      46.9∗∗∗
                                       D. F.
               # Comments                               †
                                       χ2
                                       D. F.         2            1
               # Author comments
                                       χ2    1518.4∗∗∗        790.0
                                       D. F.         3            2
               # Reviewer comments
                                       χ2    3349.9∗∗∗ 2761.4∗∗∗
                                       D. F.
               # Reviewers                              †
                                       χ2
               Emoji Reaction Variables        Overall    Nonlinear
                                       D. F.
               With emoji reaction                      †
                                       χ2
                                       D. F.         2            1
               # Emoji reactions
                                       χ2     624.1∗∗∗     622.0∗∗∗
              †: This explanatory variable is discarded during variable cluster-
             ing analysis | ρ |≥0.7
              -: This explanatory variable is not allocated with nonlinear de-
             grees of freedom
              ∗ ∗ ∗: The explanatory power of this variable is statistically dif-
             ferent, with p<0.001



applying the bootstrap validation approach, we observe that the optimism of
an adjusted R2 is 0.0004, indicating that the constructed model does not have
an overestimation issue and is stable to provide meaningful insight.
    We now discuss the explanatory power of the focused variable (i.e., Emoji
Reaction Variables) and describe the relationship between this variable and the
review time. With Emoji Reactions variable was removed due to its high cor-
relation with another variable. For the # Emoji Reactions variable, as shown
10                                                                                        Dong Wang   et al.




                               30
         Review Time (Hours)




                               20




                               10




                                    0   20   40   60     80    100     120    140   160   180   200
                                                   The number of Emoji reactions



Fig. 2 The nonlinear relationship between the likelihood that the review time is taken for
a PR and the number of Emoji reactions (RQ1).




in the table, we find that it has a significant correlation with the PR review
time, with p-value <0.001. However, according to the Wald χ2 values, we ob-
serve that the explanatory power of the number of emoji reactions is not as
large as the explanatory powers of the other dominant confounding variables.
The larger the χ2 of an explanatory variable is, the larger the contribution
that the variable makes to the model. Specifically, the Wald χ2 value of the
# Emoji Reactions variable is 624.1, while the Wald χ2 values of the # Re-
viewer Comments, # Commits, # Author Comments, Description Length are
3349.9, 2960.0, 1518.4, and 1338.4, respectively. Figure 2 depicts the nonlinear
relationship between the number of emoji reactions and the review time. As
we can see, the number of emoji reactions shares a positive relationship when
the number of emoji reactions is less than three. But a negative relationship
is observed if the number of emoji reactions is greater than three. Based on
the overall likelihood, the result suggests that compared to the PRs with no
emoji reactions, it tends to take a relatively longer time for PRs with emoji
reactions to be closed.



     RQ1: Does the emoji reaction used in the review discussion correlate
     with review time?
     Findings from the non-linear regression models indicate that the num-
     ber of emoji reactions has a significant correlation with the review time.
     In other words, PRs with emoji reactions are likely to have a longer
     review time when compared to those that do not.
Title Suppressed Due to Excessive Length                                              11


3.2 First-time Contributors and Emoji Reactions (RQ2)

Approach.To answer RQ2, we perform a quantitative analysis to investigate
to what extent are PRs submitted by first-time contributors. The first-time
contributor in our study is defined as a contributor who has never submitted
any PRs to the project. Below we describe our approach in detail.
    Proportion of PRs submitted by first-time contributors. We use the dataset
of PRs that contain at least one emoji reaction (i.e., 49,460 PRs as shown in
Table 1). We notice that a PR author is able to react emojis to comments. Since
we focus on the emoji reactions that are received from developers (not the PR
author), we first remove the emoji reactions that are from the PR author. In
the end, 36,902 PRs remained. According to the explanatory variable (# PR
author experience) from RQ1, the dataset then is split into two groups: one
group is labeled as the first-time contributor where the count of # PR author
experience is 0, the other group is labeled as the non first-time contributor
where the count of # PR author experience is greater than 0. Afterward,
we calculate the proportion of the PRs submitted by first-time contributors
and non first-time contributors, respectively.
    To validate the proposed hypothesis (H1): PRs submitted by first-time con-
tributors receive more emoji reactions., we use the one proportion Z-test (Pa-
ternoster et al., 1998). One proportion Z-test compares an observed proportion
to a theoretical one when the categories are binary.

Results. Table 4 presents the proportion of PRs that contain emoji reac-
tions (excluding the cases where the emojis are reacted by the PR authors)
submitted by first-time contributors and non first-time contributors. As shown
in the table, PRs submitted by non first-time contributors are more likely to
receive emoji reactions, accounting for 89.6% of the instances. On the other
hand, only 10.4% of PRs submitted by first-time contributors received emoji
reactions.
    Significant Testing. The statistical test (Z-test) reveals that there is a sig-
nificant difference between the proportion of PRs that receive emoji reactions
submitted by the first-time contributors and the non first-time contributors,
with a p-value <0.001. This result indicates that the proposed hypothesis
“(H1): PRs submitted by first-time contributors receive more emoji reactions.”
is not established.


Table 4 The proportion of PRs containing emoji reactions submitted by first-time contrib-
utors and non first-time contributors (RQ2).

            PRs that contain emoji reactions         Percent (%)
            By first-time contributors               3,855 (10.4%)
            By non first-time contributors          33,065 (89.6%)
            Total PRs                                       36,920
12                                                               Dong Wang      et al.


     RQ2: Does a PR submitted by a first-time contributor receive more
     emoji reactions?

     A PR submitted by a first-time contributor is less likely to receive emoji
     reactions (i.e., 10.4% of all PRs by first-contributors). Statistically, the
     hypothesis that PRs submitted by first-time contributors receive more
     emoji reactions is not established.



3.3 Comment Intentions and Emoji Reactions (RQ3)

Approach. To answer RQ3, we conduct a quantitative analysis to investi-
gate the PR comments that contain emoji reactions in two aspects: (I) the
popularity of the comment intentions that contain emoji reactions, and (II)
association mining between emoji reaction kinds, and between comment in-
tentions and emoji reaction kinds.
    Popularity of comment intentions with emoji reactions. To categorize the
intentions of the comments, we use the taxonomy of intentions proposed by
Huang et al. (2018). They manually categorized 5,408 sentences from issue
reports of four projects on GitHub to generalize the linguistic pattern for
category identification. The definitions of intentions are described as follows:
 – Information Giving (IG): Share knowledge and experience with other peo-
   ple, or inform other people about new plans/updates (e.g., “The typeahead
   from Bootstrap v2 was removed.”).
 – Information Seeking (IS): Attempt to obtain information or help from
   other people (e.g., “Are there any developers working on it?”).
 – Feature Request (FR): Require to improve existing features or implement
   new features (e.g., “Please add a titled panel component to Twitter Boot-
   strap.”).
 – Solution Proposal (SP): Share possible solutions for discovered problems
   (e.g., “I fixed this for UI Kit using the following CSS.”).
 – Problem Discovery (PD): Report bugs, or describe unexpected behaviors
   (e.g., “the firstletter issue was causing a crash.”).
 – Aspect Evaluation (AE): Express opinions or evaluations on a specific as-
   pect (e.g., “I think BS3’s new theme looks good, it’s a little flat style.”).
 – Meaningless (ML): Sentences with little meaning or importance (e.g., “Thanks
   for the feedback!”).
To facilitate the automation, they proposed a convolution neural network
(CNN) based classifier with outstanding performance, which represents the
state-of-the-art in the area of automatic intention mining.
    Satiny Check. To ensure that their automatic classifier is reliable enough
to be used, we conducted a satiny check. To do so, we first randomly selected
30 comment samples and ran the automation to label these comments into the
above seven intentions. Then, the first two authors opened up a discussion to
Title Suppressed Due to Excessive Length                                     13


manually check whether the labeled intentions of the comments are correct or
not, referring to the golden datasets from Huang et al. (2018). After the check,
we observe that 24 samples out of 30 samples (80%) are correctly labeled by
the automatic classifier. We argue that this classifier is reliable enough to be
used, since the average accuracy obtained in the original work in the context
of issue comments is around 0.83. Encouraged by the satiny check results, we
will use the CNN based classifier to automatically label the intention of the
comments that have emoji reactions.
    After automatically labeling the intentions of comments, we group all the
comments into seven intention categories and count their popularity. Then,
for each intention category, we calculate the occurrence of the emoji reaction
kinds (i.e., , , , , , , , , and ). Note that when we calculate the
occurrence, we did not take into account how many times an emoji reaction
kind occurs in a comment. For instance, supposing that a comment is reacted
with THUMPS UP by five developers and HEART by two developers, in
this case, we count the occurrence of THUMPS UP and HEART as one,
respectively.
    To validate the proposed hypothesis (H2): There is a significant relation-
ship between comment intentions and emoji reaction kinds, we perform two
significant tests. First, we inspect whether or not the classified intentions of
comments are normally distributed, using the Shapiro-Wilk test with alpha =
0.05 (Shapiro and Wilk, 1965), a widely used normality test. Second, for the
relationship significance between comment intentions and emoji reactions, we
use the Pearson’s Chi-Squared test (Pearson, 1900), which is commonly used
for testing relationships between one or more categorical variables.
    Association Mining. To further explore the association (a) between emoji
reaction kinds, and (b) between comment intentions and emoji reaction kinds,
we leverage a rule-based machine learning method, widely known as the as-
sociation rule technique (Agrawal et al., 1993). Association rule mining is a
technique to discover patterns of co-occurrence in a (large) dataset, by identi-
fying entities that frequently appear together in a group, which is commonly
used in SE community (Prana et al., 2019; Li et al., 2021). To do so, we use
the association rules function of the mlxtend Python package.

Results. Popularity of the comment intentions. Figure 3 presents the inten-
tion distribution of the PR comments that have emoji reactions. As shown
in the figure, we observe that the information giving category is the most
common intention, 25.0% being identified by the SOTA intention classifier.
This result indicates that developers tend to react to comments which share
knowledge and experience with other people, or inform other people about
new plans/updates, using emojis. The second most frequent intention to re-
ceive emoji reactions is aspect evaluation (i.e., comments that express opinions
or evaluations on a specific aspect), accounting for 19.4%. The least common
intentions include information seeking and feature request, being 10.2% and
8.9%, respectively.
14                                                                                       Dong Wang             et al.


       information giving                                                                              25.0%


       aspect evaluation                                                             19.4%


      problem discovery                                           13.0%


       solution proposal                                          13.0%


                    others                                10.6%


     information seeking                                 10.2%


          feature request                         8.9%


                             0           5000               10000                15000               20000
                                                 Number of PR Comments
Fig. 3 Intentions of the PR comments that have emoji reactions (RQ3).


Table 5 The distribution of emoji reaction kinds across the comment intentions (RQ3).


      Information Giving      63.6%    11.2%    10.7%       6.3%       2.6%       3.0%        1.4%    1.0%
      Information Seeking     70.6%     9.2%     6.5%        3.8%      3.4%       4.6%        1.0%    0.8%
      Aspect Evaluation      74.4%      7.7%     5.7%        3.5%      2.4%       3.5%       1.5%     1.1%
      Feature Request         68.6%    10.8%     8.0%        5.4%      2.7%       2.7%        1.2%    0.8%
      Problem Discovery       67.1%     9.8%     8.6%        5.3%     3.9%        2.7%        1.1%   1.3%
      Solution Proposal       67.6%    10.4%     9.1%        5.2%      2.4%       3.0%        1.2%    0.9%
      Others                  58.4%   14.5%    13.9%         5.1%      1.5%      5.5%         0.5%    0.5%



Table 6 Association rules at the emoji reaction level (RQ3).

      Rule                                                                 Support           Confidence
      { (EYES),     (HEART),     (ROCKET)} ⇒ { (HOORAY)}                      0.0017                 0.86
      { (EYES),     (HEART),     (ROCKET)} ⇒ { (THUMBS UP)}                   0.0016                 0.82
      { (EYES),     (HEART),     (HOORAY)} ⇒ { (THUMBS UP)}                   0.0016                 0.82


Table 7 Association rules at the intention level (RQ3).

             Rule                                                   Support        Confidence
             {aspect evaluation} ⇒ { (THUMBS UP)}                         0.16                0.80
             {information giving} ⇒ { (THUMBS UP)}                        0.18                0.72



    To complement the insights, we also investigate how frequently each kind
of emoji reaction is used across the eight comment intentions. Table 5 shows
the related results. In general, we observe that positive emoji reactions are
frequently used ( , , ) when compared to negative emoji reactions ( ,
  ). For instance, the usage frequency of THUMPS UP on average reaches
up to 67.2% across seven intentions, while the usage frequency of THUMPS
DOWN on average is only 0.9%. Upon a look at the emoji reaction kinds, we
find that each emoji reaction kind tends to be used with specific intentions.
For THUMPS UP , as highlighted in blue, it is most frequently used in
Title Suppressed Due to Excessive Length                                       15


the aspect evaluation intention (74.4%). For HEART , HOORAY , and
LAUGH , they are likely to be used in Others intention (sentences with little
meaning or importance, e.g., “Thanks for the feedback!”), i.e., 14.5%, 13.9%,
and 5.5%, respectively. The EYES        is commonly used in problem discovery
intention (3.9%).
    Significant Testing. First of all, the Shapiro-Wilk test suggests that the
classified intentions of comments are normally distributed, with alpha = 0.12
(greater than 0.05). The Pearson’s Chi-Squared test confirms that there is a
significant relationship between comment intentions and emoji reactions, i.e.,
p-value <0.001, indicating that the hypothesis (H2) is established.
    Association mining. We apply the association rule mining at two levels:
between emoji reaction kinds, and between emoji reaction kinds and comment
intentions. With regard to the extracted rules at the emoji reaction level, we
only consider rules with the support of at least 0.0013 (i.e., the rule must apply
to at least six emoji reaction kinds) and the confidence of at least 0.8, similar
to the prior work (Prana et al., 2019). Table 6 shows the three extracted
association rules at the emoji reaction level. For example, the comment is
reacted by the group of { , , } is likely to contain , with the confidence
of 0.86. In terms of the intention level, we set the support of at least 0.15
and the confidence of at least 0.7. Table 7 shows the two extracted association
rules at the intention level. We observe that the comment intentions of aspect
evaluation or information giving are likely to be reacted with (THUMBS UP),
the confidence being 0.80 and 0.72, separately.

   RQ3: What is the relationship between the intention of comments and
   their emoji reaction?

   We find that PR comments with the intention of information giving
   are more likely to receive emoji reactions (i.e., 25.0%). Our statistical
   test suggests that there is a significant relationship between comment
   intentions and emoji reactions. Moreover, the positive THUMBS UP
   (67.2% on average) is widely used, while negative emojis (between 0.5%
   to 1.5%) are rarely used.



3.4 Consistency of Emoji Sentiments (RQ4)

Approach. To answer RQ4, we conduct a mixed analysis (qualitative and
quantitative) to investigate the PR comments that contain emoji reactions in
terms of (I) frequency of sentiment consistency between emoji reactions and
comments, and (II) reasons behind the inconsistency. Below, we describe the
approach of two aspects in detail.
    Frequency of sentiment consistency. To investigate the sentiment consis-
tency, first we need to label the sentiment of emoji reactions and the sentiment
of comments, separately. For the sentiment of emoji reactions, we refer to our
preliminary study in the registered report and we classify the sentiments of the
16                                                             Dong Wang     et al.


emoji reactions into the following four types: Positive, Negative, Neutral,
and Mixed. Positive refers to the single usage or the combination usage of
THUMBS UP , LAUGH , HOORAY , HEART , and ROCKET reactions. Negative
denotes to the single usage or the combination usage of THUMBS DOWN ,and
CONFUSED reactions. Neutral represents the usage of EYES reaction. Mixed
refers to the combination usage of the four categories mentioned above. For
the sentiment of comments, we use SentiStrength-SE (Islam and Zibran, 2018),
a state-of-the-art sentiment analysis tool that utilizes domain dictionary and
heuristics for software engineering text. In our study, input is the PR comment
that contains emoji reactions and output is a sentiment score ranging from -5
(very negative) to 5 (very positive). Note that, to reduce the potential threat
due to false positives, we exclude the PR descriptions that contain emoji re-
actions. After we obtain the sentiment labels for the emoji reactions and the
comments, we then map them into the level of a PR comment and count the
frequency of the possible patterns (e.g., Positive-Positive, Positive-Neutral,
Positive-Negative, and so on).
    To validate the proposed hypothesis (H3): There is a significant relation-
ship between comment sentiments and emoji reaction sentiments, similar to
RQ3, we perform the Pearson’s Chi-Squared test to confirm if a significant
relationship exists or not.
    Reasons behind the inconsistency. To investigate the reasons of the incon-
sistency between the sentiment of emoji reaction and PR comment, we perform
a manual coding. In this study, we focus on the inconsistency in terms of the
positive and negative aspects. It refers to the case where the sentiment of the
emoji reaction is positive while the sentiment of the comment is negative, or
vice versa. Since there is no specifically available reason taxonomy to refer to,
we apply an open coding approach (Charmaz, 2014) to classify randomly sam-
pled comments in inconsistent cases. To discover as complete of a list of reasons
as possible, we strive for theoretical saturation (Eisenhardt, 1989) to achieve
analytical generalization. Similar to the prior work (Xiao et al., 2021), we ini-
tially set our saturation criterion to 50. Then the first two authors continue to
code randomly selected inconsistent comments until no new codes have been
discovered for 50 consecutive comments. If the new codes occur, we performed
another pass over all of the comments to correct miscoded entries and tested
the level of agreement of our constructed codes, since codes that emerge late in
the process may apply to earlier reviews. The third author joins the open dis-
cussion when disagreements occur and validates the suggested codes. Finally,
we reach saturation after coding 100 samples.

Results. Frequency of sentiment consistency. Figure 4 shows the pair-wise dis-
tribution between the sentiments of emoji reactions and comments. As shown
in the figure, we observe that the major pair-wise is Positive-Neutral (i.e., Pos-
itive emoji reaction and Neutral comment), accounting for 52.7%. The second
most frequent pair-wise is Positive-Positive, being 31.1%. At the same time, we
find that the proportion of Positive-Negative (i.e., Positive emoji reaction and
Negative comment) pair-wise is not high as expected, 11.6% being identified,
Title Suppressed Due to Excessive Length                                                      17


                                                                                         50
                                Negative   0.2     0.3              0.2       11.6
                                                                                         40
            Comment sentiment

                                                                                         30
                                 Neutral   0.7     0.9              1.3       52.7
                                                                                         20

                                Positive   0.3     0.2              0.4       31.1       10
                                           Mixed




                                                   Negative




                                                                    Neutral




                                                                              Positive
                                                        Emoji reaction
Fig. 4 Pair-wise between emoji reactions and comment sentiments (RQ4). The annotations
in the plot are in the form of %.




ranked as the third most common pair-wise. Conversely, the Negative-Positive
(i.e., Negative emoji reaction and Positive comment) accounts for only 0.2%.
    Significant Testing. The Pearson’s Chi-Squared test suggests that there
is a significant relationship between comment sentiments and emoji reaction
sentiments, i.e., p-value <0.001, indicating that our proposed hypothesis (H3)
is established.
    Reasons behind sentiment inconsistency. Nine reasons are identified from
our open coding process (i.e., 100 samples). Table 8 presents the frequency
of these reasons, with their representative samples. We find that Acknowledge
a mistake is the most common reason behind sentiment inconsistency, ac-
counting for 22%. The following reason is Acknowledge a proposal, being 15%
classified. The rare reasons include Irony and Disagree with optimistic proposal
(i.e., 1% for them, respectively). On the other hand, we observe that the rate
of False-Positive is relatively high, accounting for 23%. False-Positive refers to
those cases, where the sentiments of comments are not correctly labeled by
the tool after the manual validation.


   RQ4: Is emoji reaction consistent with comment sentiment?

   Results indicate that a high percent of emoji sentiments are consis-
   tent with their comments, with only 11.8% (i.e., 11.6% + 0.2%) being
   inconsistent. The statistical test confirms that there is a significant re-
   lationship between comment sentiments and emoji reaction sentiments.
   We then identify nine reasons behind these inconsistencies (acknowl-
   edgments, confirmations, counters, irony, etc.). A positive acknowledg-
   ment of a negative mistake is the most frequent reason (i.e., 22%).
18                                                                                         Dong Wang    et al.


Table 8 Frequency of reasons behind sentiment inconsistency (RQ4).

     Reason                                                  Representative example                  # Cases
     Acknowledge a mistake                       “Oops - pushed to wrong branch... undoing                22
                                                 now!!”
     Acknowledge a proposal                      “I don’t really like this solution. The join             15
                                                 will not correctly set-up the model graph, so
                                                 the best solution in my opinion is to write:
                                                 @code...”
     Counter a pessimistic opinion               “Faker is a dev dependency, and would fail to            13
                                                 run in production. I afraid that developer may
                                                 start using this method beyond seeders”
     Confirm a proposal                          “Sorry about the last minute change, but I re-           11
                                                 alized that client-side could also benefit from
                                                 richer exception messages. I’d appreciate if re-
                                                 viewers can take a look at the following commit
                                                 58acdbc”
     Acknowledge a pessimistic outcome           “Sorry @username - this is way out of the areas           8
                                                 of anything I have knowledge of”
     Confirm request for a pessimistic outcome   “Thanks for the PR! So, the change is that:               3
                                                 @code... but this is probably there to prevent
                                                 bad things to happen like a sql injection, no?
                                                 PS: I can’t easily read the diff on github, dunno
                                                 why, if some other staff member can explain
                                                 why, it’s very annoying (seems related to co-
                                                 dacy)”
     Counter an optimistic proposal              “@username... How good a reason is depends                1
                                                 not only on the severity of the issue but also
                                                 on the importance of the data we update or
                                                 not update. @explanation...”
     Irony                                       “Worst Translation Ever”                                  1
     Others                                                                                                3
     False-Positive                              Comment sentiments are not correctly labeled             23
                                                 by the tool.




4 Discussion

We now discuss the implications of our empirical findings, provide possible
suggestions to facilitate code review and social communication, and outline
the limitations and potential research topics.

Implications for project development on GitHub. Developers on GitHub
should be aware that using an emoji reaction is correlated with the review
process. Our RQ1 results indicate that emoji reactions have a statistical cor-
relation with review time, and PRs with emoji reactions overall tend to take
a longer review time than the ones with no emoji reactions. It is important
to note that we do not claim causality, as there could be other confounding
factors that play a role in the regression models. We speculate that PRs with
emoji reactions are likely to include complex contexts that require further dis-
cussions and may be involved more participants compared to the ones that
do not contain emojis. Usually, simple PRs are handled quickly, even when
they do not have reactions. Hence, such a finding does not imply that emoji
reactions have a negative effect on review efficiency as the efficiency could be
affected by the nature of PRs. Potential reasoning may be related to the find-
ings observed in the context of issue reports. Prior work (Borges et al., 2019)
reported that issues with reactions usually take more time to be handled and
have longer discussions, especially for those complex bugs and enhancements.
Title Suppressed Due to Excessive Length                                      19


Furthermore, due to longer discussions, cognitive loads combined with textual
and visual expressions may increase. For example, Tigwell and Flatla (2016);
Bai et al. (2019) pointed out that the difference in how emoji are understood
could bring ambiguities in the interpretation of communication, and leads to
inefficiency.
    The usage of emoji reactions signals an already friendly environment on
GitHub. This is evident by RQ3, where positive emoji reactions are commonly
used during PR comments across different intentions, especially THUMBS UP
being 67.2% on average (Table 5). Negative emoji reactions are rarely used,
only ranging from 0.5% to 1.5%. Our RQ3 results suggest that contributors
tend to react to those comments with positive emojis that share knowledge
and require opinion expressions or evaluations. Specifically, We find that those
intentions of information giving and aspect evaluation are more likely to receive
emoji reactions (25.0% and 19.4%, respectively, shown in Figure 3).
    Emoji reactions on GitHub have the potential to reduce toxicity. During the
reason analysis behind the sentiment inconsistency (RQ4), results show that
in most cases, emoji reactions are used as a kind of encouragement to react
to negative comments. Even in cases where the reaction is not consistent with
the sentiment of the comment, as shown in Table 8, the most prevalent reason
is to acknowledge a mistake by replying to a negative comment with a positive
emoji reaction. This indicates that emoji reactions can reduce or counter neg-
ative sentiments, and potentially lighten tense situations. The negative effect
of toxicity in open-source projects is widely studied. Literature shows evi-
dence that some newcomers disengage due to negative interactions (Qiu et al.,
2019), and frequent contributors often suffer from stress and burnout facing
toxic interactions (Raman et al., 2020). Along the same line to support social
communication, our study results prove the positive role of emoji reactions
play in the collaboration environment.

Suggestions. We provide several possible suggestions for the stakeholders.
On the one hand, contributors should not be afraid of expressing negative or
contentious comments, as emoji reactions have the potential to diffuse any tox-
icity and can lighten the tense situation. Especially for newcomers, they should
not expect immediate emoji reactions as a sign of hostility. Instead, emoji re-
actions could be considered an indicator of familiarity and positiveness in the
environment. On the other hand, in addition to diffusing tense situations, re-
viewers are encouraged to keep using emoji reactions to properly express their
sentiments in order to construct a friendly and positive interaction with re-
view participants. In terms of governance and maintaining consistency, GitHub
projects are encouraged to document, broadcast, and mentor the proper usage
of emoji reactions for the sustained livelihood of Open Source projects.

Limitations and potential research topics. Our research foresees research
directions for code review efficiency, the health of communication channels,
and the attraction, onboarding, and sustainability of contributions to Open
Source Software. To address the limitation of the statistical models, future
20                                                            Dong Wang     et al.


work should further investigate the causality of the relationship between emoji
reactions and review time to understand whether or not the longer time has
some negative or positive effects on the project. RQ2 results show that non
first-time contributors are more likely to receive emoji reactions, hence future
work could further explore what features will contribute to this. Several studies
demonstrated that the usage of emojis could be affected by developer gender,
age, and cultural difference (Guntuku et al., 2019; Herring and Dainas, 2020).
Therefore, another potential direction is to look into whether such factors play
a role in the usage of emojis within the scope of code review.


5 Threats to Validity

In this section, we disclose the threats to the validity of our study.

External validity. This validity refers to the generalization ability of our
results. We conduct an empirical study on 1,850 GitHub repositories across
seven popular languages. The threat may occur due to the number of studied
repositories and the choice of languages. To relieve this threat, we construct
a representative dataset, with a confidence level of 95% and a confidence in-
terval of 5, by taking each language-based repository population into account.
Meanwhile, these seven popular languages are commonly studied in the prior
study (Hata et al., 2019). We believe that our study on these 1,850 repositories
is sufficient enough to shed light on the role of the emoji reactions in the code
review process.

Construct validity. This validity denotes the degree to which our measure-
ments capture. We summarize four threats. The first threat may exist in the
bot removal in the data preparation process. We rely on the combination of
two bot detection techniques (“bot” suffix and list of ground-truth bots). It
is reasonable that we can not ensure we are able to remove all the GitHub
bots. However, the highest accuracy of these two bot detection techniques is
recognized in the latest research. Second, identifying the purpose of PRs in
RQ1 may introduce a potential threat. The purposes in fact would not only
include documentation, bug fixing, and feature introduction but also include
others like refactoring activity. However, there is no reliable method to au-
tomatically identify this activity. Hence, along the same line as the existing
work (Thongtanunam et al., 2017; McIntosh et al., 2014; Wang et al., 2021b),
we decided to adopt the same automated identification method. Third, other
diversity-related factors (e.g., gender, age, and culture differences) could po-
tentially influence the findings on the usage of emoji reactions in RQ3 and
RQ4. Thus, future work should further investigate the effect of these factors
in the context of code review. The last threat could exist in our RQ4 quali-
tative analysis to categorize the reasons behind the sentiment inconsistency.
To mitigate this threat, we performed an open coding to ensure all the po-
tential codes, carefully following the guidelines provided by the literature. For
instance, we reached saturation until no new codes emerged (i.e., 100 samples).
Title Suppressed Due to Excessive Length                                       21


Internal validity. Internal validity refers to the approximate truth about
inferences. Two potential threats are concluded. The first threat may occur,
resulting from the selected classifier or tool. In RQ3, to label the comment
intention, we use the automatic classifier, which is considered as SOTA in
the context of intention mining. The comment intention could be mislabeled
due to the classifier uncertainty. Thus, to mitigate this threat, we performed
a satiny check on 30 samples and the accuracy was promising, i.e., 80%. In
RQ4, the comment sentiment could as well be mislabeled since we rely on the
SentiStrength-SE tool. However, the SentiStrength-SE tool is recognized as
one of the SOTA sentiment tools and is widely adopted in the SE domain.
The second threat could exist in the selection of statistical significance testing
techniques. To validate the establishment of our three proposed hypotheses,
we apply several kinds of significance testing techniques (i.e., Z-test, Pearson’s
Chi-Squared test). The casual-effect may vary on the selection of these tech-
niques. We are however confident, as these techniques are commonly used in
empirical studies.


6 Related Work

This section situates this study with respect to the related work, including the
effect of non-technical factors in code review, and modern communication in
software development.


6.1 Effect of Non-technical Factors in Code Review

Software code review is established as one of the best practices to improve soft-
ware quality (Rigby and Storey, 2011). Tool-based code reviews, a lightweight
variation of traditional code reviews, have been widely studied in the last
decade. A number of studies point out that the effect of tool-based review is
not only affected by technical factors, but also by non-technical factors (Baysal
et al., 2013; Baysal et al., 2016). In terms of developer participation, McIntosh
et al. (2014) reported that developer participation in code review is also asso-
ciated with the incidence of post-release defects. Similarly, Kononenko et al.
(2015) found that personal metrics and participation metrics shared a rela-
tionship with the quality of the review process. Review comment is one of
the main building blocks and is crucial to the review quality (Sadowski et al.,
2018). Jiang et al. (2013) showed that the amount of discussion is a significant
indicator of whether a patch will be accepted for integration into the Linux
kernel. El Asri et al. (2019) empirically studied the impact of sentiment em-
bodied within developers’ comments and they observed that the reviews with
negative comments on average took more time to complete than the reviews
with positive/neutral comments. Hirao et al. (2020) studied divergent review
scores in the review discussion and suggested that divisive patches are often
integrated through discussion, integration timing, and careful revision. Zhang
22                                                            Dong Wang     et al.


et al. (2022) conducted an empirical study to systematically investigate the
factors that affect pull request latency. They found that comments have a
significant impact on the latency of pull requests.
    With the wider usage of emoji reactions in the code review (i.e., pull re-
quests), we argue that as a non-technical factor, emoji reactions may also have
an effect on the review process.



6.2 Modern Communication in Software Development

For purposes of collaboration and communication between developers, commu-
nication channels (e.g., issue reports, mailing lists, pull requests, and GitHub
discussions) are integrated or supplemented in development tools (Chui et al.,
2012; Tantisuwankul et al., 2019). Various non-textual information is embed-
ded in these communication channels to enrich the knowledge sharing between
developers. Nayebi (2020) showed that the increasing trend of image usage and
images facilitated Q&A communication in Stack Overflow. Recent studies also
investigate the usage of these visual contents in terms of issue reports (Agrawal
et al., 2022; Kuramoto et al., 2022). Link sharing is also another common mod-
ern communication strategy. Hata et al. (2019) investigated the characteristics
and phenomenons of links in source code comments and found that referenc-
ing links is prevalent in source code comments (e.g., software homepages, and
articles or tutorials). Wang et al. (2021b) observed that the practice of link
sharing has a significant correlation with the code review time. Fu et al. (2022)
found that code snippets are not frequently used in code review, however, code
snippets with the aim of suggestion are actively accepted by the patch author.
    Developers also use emojis, visual symbols in computer mediated commu-
nication, to represent their opinions (Bai et al., 2019). The prior work has
shown that emoji use in the East and the West reveals recognizable normative
and culture specific patterns (Guntuku et al., 2019). Claes et al. (2018) also
observed that various types of emojis can be used in two studied issues trackers
and from different developers (i.e., western developers use more emojis than
eastern developers) at different times (e.g., negative emojis are used during
weekends). Herring and Dainas (2020) pointed out that females use emoji and
emoticons more frequently than males do. Borges et al. (2019) explored the us-
age of GitHub reactions in issues reports. They found that the usage of emoji
reactions is increasingly growing and furthermore emoji reactions make more
discussion for bug and enhancement issue reports. To support visual represen-
tations of sentiments, Venigalla and Chimalakonda (2021) proposed a plugin
namely StackEmo to augment comments on Stack Overflow with emojis. Chen
et al. (2021) learned representations of SE-related texts through emoji predic-
tion by leveraging Tweets and GitHub posts containing emojis. Rong et al.
(2022) discovered the usage of emojis in software development. Their results
showed that emojis tend to be used during every phase of a conversation on
GitHub regardless of the developers’ roles.
Title Suppressed Due to Excessive Length                                     23


   Although the phenomenon of emoji usage in textual content has been com-
monly addressed, it is still unclear what is the role of the emoji as a reaction
during the software development (i.e., code review process). Our study would
complement the knowledge lying in the context of modern communication.




7 Deviations from the Registered Report

Our study requires unavoidable deviations from the research protocol (Son
et al., 2021) that we have carefully documented below:

1. Studied Repository Dataset. Due to the restriction of GitHub API down-
   loading within our given time-frame, we decided to select a representative
   sample of the studied repositories instead of the full dataset. Hence, we
   constructed a representative repository dataset that contains 1,850 repos-
   itories across seven languages, instead of the 25,925 repositories outlined
   in the protocol. As described in the data collection (Section 3), this is a
   statistical sample that was systematically collected.
2. Research Approach. We outline three deviations related to the methodol-
   ogy, and have a minimal effect on the results. First, in the explanatory
   variable selection (RQ1), we added another two variables (i.e., Language
   and Description length) that show the effect in the prior work. Meanwhile,
   we removed the variable “commit size” and instead we introduced another
   two related variables “# Added lines” and “#Deleted lines”. In addition,
   we altered the calculation of the dependent variable “Review time” by
   taking into account the PR closed time. Second, in the proportion of PRs
   submitted by the first-time contributors (RQ2), we did not follow a control
   study where we planned to construct a balanced control group. Instead, we
   divided all PRs that contain emoji reactions into the ones by first-time con-
   tributors and the other ones by non first-time contributors. Third, during
   the manual classification of reasons behind sentiment inconsistency (RQ3),
   we did not calculate the Kappa score as the open coding process does not
   require it (Hirao et al., 2019; Xiao et al., 2021).
3. Hypothesis Testing. While conducting the experiments, we realized that
   the hypotheses and corresponding statistical tests reported in the protocol
   were not appropriate from RQs2–4. For RQ2, the result was in the form of
   binary categories, thus we changed to use the one proportion Z-test. For
   RQ3, we changed the prior hypothesis (H2) to the hypothesis “There is
   a significant relationship between comment intentions and emoji reaction
   kinds”. To validate it, we used the Pearson’s Chi-Squared test. For RQ4,
   we changed the hypothesis (H3) to the hypothesis “There is a significant
   relationship between comment sentiments and emoji reaction sentiments”.
   Similarly, we adopted the Pearson’s Chi-Squared test to validate it.
24                                                           Dong Wang     et al.


8 Conclusion

In this work, we conducted an empirical study on 1,850 repositories to in-
vestigate the role of emoji reactions in GitHub pull requests. Specifically, we
analyzed the following four aspects: (i) the correlation between the emoji re-
actions and the review time, (ii) whether first-time contributors being likely
to receive emoji reactions, (iii) relationship between the comment intentions
and emoji reactions, and (iv) consistency between comment sentiments and
emoji reaction sentiments.
    The results show that (i) the number of emoji reactions have a significant
correlation with the review time; (ii) a PR submitted by a first-time contrib-
utor is less likely to receive emoji reactions; (iii) the PR comments with the
intention of information giving are more likely to receive emoji reactions; and
(iv) Positive–Negative inconsistency pair-wise accounts for 11.8%, and to ac-
knowledge a mistake is the most common reason of sentiment inconsistency.
These empirical results highlight the role of emoji reactions play in collabora-
tive communication and specifically suggest that the usage of emoji reactions
signals an already positive environment on GitHub and it has the potential to
reduce toxicity. Future research directions include a deeper study of investi-
gating the causality of emoji reactions and understanding the reasons why it
takes a longer time to complete the review, and analyzing the diversity-related
perspectives of emoji reactions in the scope of code review.




Acknowledgements This work is supported by Japanese Society for the Pro-
motion of Science (JSPS) KAKENHI Grant Numbers 18H04094 and 20K19774
and 20H05706.

Data Availability The datasets generated during and/or analysed during
the current study are available in the GitHub repository, https://github.
com/NAIST-SE/EmojiReaction_PR.




Declarations

Conflict of Interests The authors declare that Raula Gaikovina Kula and
Yasutaka Kamei are members of the EMSE Editorial Board. All co-authors
have seen and agree with the contents of the manuscript and there is no finan-
cial interest to report.
Title Suppressed Due to Excessive Length                                    25


References

Agrawal R, Imieliński T, Swami A (1993) Mining association rules between
  sets of items in large databases. In: Proceedings of the 1993 ACM SIGMOD
  international conference on Management of data, pp 207–216
Agrawal V, Lin YH, Cheng J (2022) Understanding the characteristics of visual
  contents in open source issue discussions: A case study of jupyter notebook.
  In: The International Conference on Evaluation and Assessment in Software
  Engineering 2022, Association for Computing Machinery, p 249–254, DOI
  10.1145/3530019.3534082
Bai Q, Dan Q, Mu Z, Yang M (2019) A systematic review of emoji: Current
  research and future perspectives. Frontiers in psychology 10:2221
Baysal O, Kononenko O, Holmes R, Godfrey MW (2013) The influence of
  non-technical factors on code review. In: 2013 20th Working Conference on
  Reverse Engineering (WCRE), pp 122–131
Baysal O, Kononenko O, Holmes R, Godfrey MW (2016) Investigating Techni-
  cal and Non-technical Factors Influencing Modern Code Review. Empirical
  Software Engineering p 932–959
Borges H, Brito R, Valente MT (2019) Beyond textual issues: Understanding
  the usage and impact of github reactions. In: Proceedings of the XXXIII
  Brazilian Symposium on Software Engineering, pp 397–406
Charmaz K (2014) Constructing Grounded Theory. SAGE
Chen Z, Cao Y, Yao H, Lu X, Peng X, Mei H, Liu X (2021) Emoji-powered
  sentiment and emotion detection from software developers’ communica-
  tion data. ACM Transactions on Software Engineering and Methodology
  (TOSEM) 30(2):1–48
Chui M, Manyika J, Bughin J (2012) The social economy: Unlocking value
  and productivity through social technologies. Tech. rep., McKinsey Global
  Institute
Claes M, Mäntylä M, Farooq U (2018) On the use of emoticons in open source
  software development. In: Proceedings of the 12th ACM/IEEE International
  Symposium on Empirical Software Engineering and Measurement, pp 1–4
Dabbish L, Stuart C, Tsay J, Herbsleb J (2012) Social coding in github: trans-
  parency and collaboration in an open software repository. In: Proceedings
  of the ACM 2012 conference on computer supported cooperative work, pp
  1277–1286
Dey T, Mousavi S, Ponce E, Fry T, Vasilescu B, Filippova A, Mockus A (2020)
  Detecting and characterizing bots that commit code. In: Proceedings of the
  17th international conference on mining software repositories, pp 209–219
Ebert F, Castor F, Novielli N, Serebrenik A (2019) Confusion in code reviews:
  Reasons, impacts, and coping strategies. In: 2019 IEEE 26th International
  Conference on Software Analysis, Evolution and Reengineering (SANER),
  pp 49–60
Eisenhardt KM (1989) Building theories from case study research. Academy
  of management review
26                                                            Dong Wang     et al.


El Asri I, Kerzazi N, Uddin G, Khomh F, Idrissi MJ (2019) An empirical
   study of sentiments in code reviews. Information and Software Technology
   114:37–54
Fu L, Liang P, Zhang B (2022) Understanding code snippets in code reviews:
   A preliminary study of the openstack community. In: 2022 IEEE/ACM 30th
   International Conference on Program Comprehension (ICPC), IEEE
Golzadeh M, Decan A, Legay D, Mens T (2021) A ground-truth dataset and
   classification model for detecting bots in github issue and pr comments.
   Journal of Systems and Software 175:110911
Golzadeh M, Decan A, Chidambaram N (2022) On the accuracy of bot detec-
   tion techniques. In: International Workshop on Bots in Software Engineering
   (BotSE). IEEE
Guntuku SC, Li M, Tay L, Ungar LH (2019) Studying cultural differences in
   emoji usage across the east and the west. In: Proceedings of the international
   AAAI conference on web and social media, vol 13, pp 226–235
Harrell Jr FE, Lee KL, Califf RM, Pryor DB, Rosati RA (1984) Regres-
   sion modelling strategies for improved prognostic prediction. Statistics in
   Medicine pp 143–152
Hastie T, Tibshirani R, Friedman J (2009) The Elements of Statistical Learn-
   ing: Data Mining, Inference, and Prediction. Springer
Hata H, Treude C, Kula RG, Ishio T (2019) 9.6 million links in source code
   comments: Purpose, evolution, and decay. In: Proceedings of the 41st In-
   ternational Conference on Software Engineering, IEEE Press, ICSE ’19, p
   1211–1221
Herring SC, Dainas AR (2020) Gender and age influences on interpretation of
   emoji functions. ACM Transactions on Social Computing 3(2):1–26
Hirao T, McIntosh S, Ihara A, Matsumoto K (2019) The review linkage graph
   for code review analytics: a recovery approach and empirical study. In: Pro-
   ceedings of the 2019 27th ACM Joint Meeting on European Software Engi-
   neering Conference and Symposium on the Foundations of Software Engi-
   neering, pp 578–589
Hirao T, McIntosh S, Ihara A, Matsumoto K (2020) Code reviews with diver-
   gent review scores: An empirical study of the openstack and qt communities.
   IEEE Transactions on Software Engineering
Huang Q, Xia X, Lo D, Murphy GC (2018) Automating intention mining.
   IEEE Transactions on Software Engineering 46(10):1098–1119
Islam MR, Zibran M (2018) Sentistrength-se: Exploiting domain specificity
   for improved sentiment analysis in software engineering text. J Syst Softw
   145:125–146
Jiang Y, Adams B, German DM (2013) Will my patch make it? and how fast?
   case study on the linux kernel. In: 2013 10th Working Conference on Mining
   Software Repositories (MSR), IEEE, pp 101–110
Kononenko O, Baysal O, Guerrouj L, Cao Y, Godfrey MW (2015) Investigating
   code review quality: Do people and participation matter? In: 2015 IEEE
   international conference on software maintenance and evolution (ICSME),
   IEEE, pp 111–120
Title Suppressed Due to Excessive Length                                        27


Kononenko O, Rose T, Baysal O, Godfrey M, Theisen D, de Water B (2018)
  Studying pull request merges: A case study of shopify’s active merchant. In:
  2018 IEEE/ACM 40th International Conference on Software Engineering:
  Software Engineering in Practice Track (ICSE-SEIP), pp 124–133
Kuramoto H, Kondo M, Kashiwa Y, Ishimoto Y, Shindo K, Kamei Y, Ubayashi
  N (2022) Do visual issue reports help developers fix bugs?:-a preliminary
  study of using videos and images to report issues on github. In: 2022
  IEEE/ACM 30th International Conference on Program Comprehension
  (ICPC), IEEE, pp 511–515
Li W, Meng N, Li L, Cai H (2021) Understanding language selection in multi-
  language software projects on github. In: 2021 IEEE/ACM 43rd Interna-
  tional Conference on Software Engineering: Companion Proceedings (ICSE-
  Companion), IEEE, pp 256–257
Maddila C, Bansal C, Nagappan N (2019) Predicting pull request completion
  time: a case study on large scale cloud services. In: Proceedings of the 2019
  27th acm joint meeting on european software engineering conference and
  symposium on the foundations of software engineering, pp 874–882
McIntosh S, Kamei Y, Adams B, Hassan AE (2014) The impact of code review
  coverage and code review participation on software quality: A case study of
  the qt, vtk, and itk projects. In: Proceedings of the 11th Working Conference
  on Mining Software Repositories, p 192–201
Mcintosh S, Kamei Y, Adams B, Hassan AE (2016) An empirical study of
  the impact of modern code review practices on software quality. Empirical
  Software Engineering p 2146–2189
Nayebi M (2020) Eye of the mind: Image processing for social coding. In: 2020
  IEEE/ACM 42nd International Conference on Software Engineering: New
  Ideas and Emerging Results (ICSE-NIER), IEEE, pp 49–52
Paternoster R, Brame R, Mazerolle P, Piquero A (1998) Using the correct sta-
  tistical test for the equality of regression coefficients. Criminology 36(4):859–
  866
Pearson K (1900) X. on the criterion that a given system of deviations from
  the probable in the case of a correlated system of variables is such that it
  can be reasonably supposed to have arisen from random sampling. The Lon-
  don, Edinburgh, and Dublin Philosophical Magazine and Journal of Science
  50(302):157–175
Prana GAA, Treude C, Thung F, Atapattu T, Lo D (2019) Categorizing the
  content of github readme files. Empirical Software Engineering 24(3):1296–
  1327
Rigby PC, Storey MA (2011) Understanding Broadcast Based Peer Review on
  Open Source Software Projects. In: Proceedings of the 33rd International
  Conference on Software Engineering, pp 541–550
Rong S, Wang W, Mannan UA, de Almeida ES, Zhou S, Ahmed I (2022)
  An empirical study of emoji use in software development communication.
  Information and Software Technology 148:106912
Saadat S, Colmenares N, Sukthankar G (2021) Do bots modify the workflow of
  github teams? In: 2021 IEEE/ACM Third International Workshop on Bots
28                                                           Dong Wang    et al.


  in Software Engineering (BotSE), IEEE, pp 1–5
Sadowski C, Söderberg E, Church L, Sipko M, Bacchelli A (2018) Modern code
  review: a case study at google. In: Proceedings of the 40th International
  Conference on Software Engineering: Software Engineering in Practice, pp
  181–190
Shapiro SS, Wilk MB (1965) An analysis of variance test for normality (com-
  plete samples). Biometrika 52(3/4):591–611
Son T, Xiao T, Wang D, Kula RG, Ishio T, Matsumoto K (2021) More than
  react: Investigating the role of emojireaction in github pull requests. arXiv
  preprint arXiv:210808094
Tantisuwankul J, Nugroho YS, Kula RG, Hata H, Rungsawang A, Leelaprute
  P, Matsumoto K (2019) A topological analysis of communication channels
  for knowledge sharing in contemporary github projects. Journal of Systems
  and Software 158:110416
Thongtanunam P, Mcintosh S, Hassan AE, Iida H (2017) Review Participation
  in Modern Code Review. Empirical Software Engineering 22(2):768–817
Tigwell GW, Flatla DR (2016) Oh that’s what you meant! reducing emoji
  misunderstanding. In: Proceedings of the 18th international conference on
  human-computer interaction with mobile devices and services adjunct, pp
  859–866
Venigalla ASM, Chimalakonda S (2021) Stackemo: towards enhancing user
  experience by augmenting stack overflow with emojis. In: Proceedings of
  the 29th ACM Joint Meeting on European Software Engineering Conference
  and Symposium on the Foundations of Software Engineering, pp 1550–1554
Wang D, Ueda Y, Kula RG, Ishio T, Matsumoto K (2021a) Can we benchmark
  code review studies? a systematic mapping study of methodology, dataset,
  and metric. Journal of Systems and Software 180:111009
Wang D, Xiao T, Thongtanunam P, Kula RG, Matsumoto K (2021b) Under-
  standing shared links and their intentions to meet information needs in mod-
  ern code review. In: The Journal of Empirical Software Engineering (EMSE),
  vol 26, p to appear, DOI https://doi.org/10.1007/s10664-021-09997-x
Xiao T, Wang D, Mcintosh S, Hata H, Kula RG, Ishio T, Matsumoto K (2021)
  Characterizing and mitigating self-admitted technical debt in build systems.
  IEEE Transactions on Software Engineering
Zhang X, Yu Y, Wang T, Rastogi A, Wang H (2022) Pull request latency
  explained: An empirical overview. Empirical Software Engineering 27(6):1–
  38
