                                        arXiv submission




                                        A N OTE ON C ODE Q UALITY S CORE : LLM S FOR
                                        M AINTAINABLE L ARGE C ODEBASES
                                         Sherman Wong* , Jalaj Bhandari∗ , Leo Zhou Fan Yang, Xylan Xu, Yi Zhuang,
                                         Cem Cayiroglu, Payal Bhuptani, Sheela Yadawad & Hung Duong
                                         Meta Platforms, Inc.



                                                                                      A BSTRACT
                                                    Maintaining code quality in large-scale software systems presents significant chal-
arXiv:2508.02732v1 [cs.SE] 1 Aug 2025




                                                    lenges, particularly in settings where a large numbers of engineers work concur-
                                                    rently on a codebase. This paper introduces Code Quality Score (CQS) system
                                                    to automatically detect issues with a set of code changes and provide actionable
                                                    insights. At its core, the CQS system is powered by two Llama3 models, fine-
                                                    tuned (with SFT and offline RL approaches), to a) detect common code quality
                                                    issues related to coding best practices and b) to provide good “critiques” for LLM-
                                                    generated code review respectively. To maintain good user experience, we layer
                                                    the system with hand-crafted rules to filter out incorrect responses/hallucinations.
                                                    Offline evaluations show that our CQS system is able to achieve an impressive
                                                    precision rate for identifying valid issues. This system has already been rolled
                                                    out to developers in an industrial scale setting and has consistently achieved 60%
                                                    week over week user helpfulness rate, demonstrating its effectiveness in a real-
                                                    world environment. In this paper, we present details of the CQS system along
                                                    with some learnings on curating developer feedback to create training data for
                                                    LLM fine-tuning.


                                        1       I NTRODUCTION
                                        Evaluating code quality is a crucial part of the software development cycle, in open-source and in-
                                        dustrial settings, that requires a significant amount of developer time and effort (Sadowski et al.,
                                        2018). Recent studies point to high code quality as one of the key drivers of increased productivity
                                        of software engineering organizations and can have a huge impact on the number of defects, issue
                                        resolution time as well as time to development Cheng et al. (2022); Tornhill & Borg (2022). Chal-
                                        lenges to maintain a high quality codebase tend to scale with size and complexity in large industrial
                                        settings, with many engineers working concurrently on a continuously evolving codebase and is-
                                        sues related to high cyclomatic complexity, legacy code, inadequate documentation etc. requiring
                                        resources to manage the technical debt.
                                        However, despite increasing awareness about its importance, the process of evaluating code quality
                                        remains mostly manual and is typically done via peer code review. While traditional static analysis
                                        tools like linters are often used to automatically check some aspects of code quality such as for-
                                        matting, other important (and often nuanced) aspects of code quality such as those related to code
                                        modularity, readability, error handling, testability etc. are ambiguous and hard to evaluate by such
                                        rule based systems. This, along with high developer satisfaction rates (Winters et al., 2020), has led
                                        to human code review as the dominating paradigm.
                                        Advances in deep learning and natural language processing (NLP) have inspired initial attempts to
                                        automate the code review process with large scale pre-trained models, focusing on specific tasks
                                        such as code quality estimation, review generation and code refinement Li et al. (2022b); Thongta-
                                        nunam et al. (2022); Tufano et al. (2022); Li et al. (2022a). Most of these ideas require domain and
                                        task specific pre-training necessitating substantial computational resources. Large language models
                                        (LLMs) on the other hand have shown impressive cross domain generalization across a variety of
                                        tasks without the need for specific pre-training – in fact, most of the recent advances have leveraged
                                        post-training methods to further improve LLM performance on specific tasks.
                                            ∗
                                                Equal contribution. Please email to shermanwong@meta.com, jalajbhandari@meta.com


                                                                                             1
arXiv submission




We take inspiration from some very recent work which demonstrate early success of using LLMs for
automated code review (Lu et al., 2023; Vijayvergiya et al., 2024; CodeRabbit, 2024) and develop
a Code Quality Score (CQS) system – an LLM-powered system for code quality evaluation and
code review at industrial scale settings. We break down the entire code review process into three
distinct tasks, namely, “issue collection”, “issue validation” and “action generation” and design
CQS to orchestrate multiple components with each component responsible for one of these tasks.
For different CQS components, we fine-tune state-of-the-art open source LLMs (Llama models)
with post-training methods like supervised fine-tuning (SFT) and Direct Preference Optimization
(DPO), an offline RL approach. CQS has already been deployed to a large number of developers in
a industrial setting with positive feedback and we are leveraging constant developer feedback as a
data flywheel to iteratively fine-tune and improve our models.
Our contributions in this paper can be summarized as:

    • We develop Code Quality Score (CQS), a system to automatically evaluate code quality and
      generate code reviews in a scalable manner.
    • CQS is powered by open source LLMs (Llama models). We use a multi-stage post-training
      pipeline to better align with codebase context and developer preferences, and improve perfor-
      mance as compared to the base Llama models.
    • To enhance end-to-end developer experience, CQS orchestrates multiple components for dif-
      ferent stages of code review generation and validation, along with layers of sanity check before
      code reviews are send to developers.
    • Overall, the CQS system shows an impressive precision rate for identifying valid issues with
      a set of code changes. It has been rolled out to more than 5000 engineers at Meta and has
      achieved a week-over-week user helpfulness rate of approximately 60%.

Our hope is that systems like CQS can be used in a scalable way to evaluate codebase quality to
alleviate some of the human review burden from senior engineers and as a feedback source for
junior developers to learn about good coding practices in context of nuances of a specific codebase.

2    R ELATED W ORK

AI Assisted Automated Code Review Initial attempts at automating aspects of the code review-
ing process mostly leveraged pre-training recipes with transformer based model architectures. For
example, Tufano et al. (2022) used source code and code reviews from GitHub to train an Text-to-
Text Transformer (T5) model (Raffel et al., 2020) while Li et al. (2022b) train an encoder-decoder
model using code diff hunks (instead of using the source code directly) and corresponding reviews
collected from high quality GitHub projects. However, more recently, the focus has shifted away
from training models from scratch and towards leveraging world knowledge from foundation models
such as Llama (Touvron et al., 2023) or Claude models, to create systems for code review. Unsur-
prisingly, using LLMs for code reviewing (and in general for coding tasks) has outperformed domain
specific models trained only on code generation/code review tasks. For example, Lu et al. (2023) de-
sign Llama-Reviewer, a framework aimed to fully automate the code review process by integrating
code review generation and code refinement steps, by fine-tuning Llama models.
Similarly, Vijayvergiya et al. (2024) develop AutoCommenter, an LLM-based system deployed at
Google for detecting violations of coding best practices frequently referenced by human reviewers.
Not only did AutoCommenter demonstrate the feasibility of deploying such an end-to-end system
at scale, it also demonstrated high overall efficacy and user acceptance with over 50% developer
helpfulness rating. As compared to the Llama-Reviewer framework of (Lu et al., 2023), we only
restrict ourselves to generating high quality code reviews and go beyond training data collected
from GitHub to fine-tune models using a multi-stage post-training pipeline comprised of SFT and
offline RL approaches. As compared to AutoCommenter (Vijayvergiya et al., 2024), we go beyond
only detecting URL based best practice violations and instead focus on a variety of issues referenced
by developers in their code reviews. In addition, CQS orchestrates multiple components to improve
precision and developer experience, and is designed to leverage constant developer feedback to
iteratively improve based on new issues that may arise in new code context (for e.g. when new
frameworks are introduced in the codebase), developer preferences etc.


                                                  2
arXiv submission




CodeRabbit (2024) is another system similar to ours and offers AI-powered code review for enter-
prise customers by leveraging Anthropic’s Claude series of models to provide context-aware feed-
back on pull requests with AST analysis and integration of static analyzers. While relying on ex-
ternal model providers introduces cost dependencies and limits customization, the CQS system is
powered by open-source Llama models enabling controlled compute costs and deep customization.


Fine-tuning LLMs Large language models trained with self-supervised learning have shown im-
pressive zero-shot/few-shot performance in a variety of tasks (Brown et al., 2020; Chowdhery et al.,
2023). With the explosion of LLMs and their applications in recent years, alignment/fine-tuning has
emerged a major research area with the aim to improve performance of LLMs on specific tasks/hu-
man intent. There is a large body of work exploring novel methods for fine-tuning LLMs. For
brevity, we only mention work that we directly leveraged.
The Reinforcement Learning Fine-tuning (RFT) pipeline typically consists of an SFT phase, where
a pre-trained LLM is fine-tuned with supervised learning on high quality data from the downstream
task of interest, followed by RL optimization (Ziegler et al., 2019; Ouyang et al., 2022). Both
online RL (using reward models in PPO training) and offline RL approaches (by sampling multiple
generations from the LLM and making preference pairs) exist for the RL fine-tuning phase. In
our work, we only explore offline RL approaches based on Direct Preference Optimization (DPO)
Rafailov et al. (2023) due to its simplicity1 . To create preference pairs for DPO, we used an LLM-
judge model (that we also fine-tuned with SFT) to critique and score generations.


LLM-Judge for Preference Optimization As mentioned above, we use an LLM-judge model
to create preference pairs for DPO training. Using LLM-judge models in the LLM development
cycle has emerged as an important alternative to using human annotations (which can be costly and
time consuming to obtain). Very recent work shown impressive results using LLM-judge models
as reward models/scoring functions for creating preference pairs (Wang et al., 2024; Yuan et al.,
2024; Kim et al., 2024). Another closely related line of work has focused on judge models that
first verbalize a critique and then map it to a preference score, yielding more transparent and often
more data-efficient alignment signals. For example, the Critique-out-Loud approach of Ankner et al.
(2024) explicitly trains a judge model to verbalize free-form critiques, showing that such rationales
can significantly improve pairwise preference classification accuracy.
We want to note two points in context of our work. First, for CQS, we were unable to use third party
closed LLMs (like GPT 4, Claude models) as judge models to obtain feedback signal for training
due to restricted use license and found off-the-shelf open models to under perform the LLM-judge
model we trained using developer feedback (see section 3.4.2 for details). Second, we did find the
approach of using an LLM-judge model to be quite effective in the absence of human annotations –
our trained judge model was able to effectively transfer limited developer feedback into preference
signals for fine-tuning.


3       T HE C ODE Q UALITY S CORE (CQS) SYSTEM

The code quality score (CQS) system orchestrates multiple LLM based components to automate
the code review process – with a slight abuse of the “agent” terminology, we refer to the CQS
system architecture as being a “multi-agent” one. Such a multi-agent architecture allows distinct,
specialized roles to be assigned to different agents. The CQS system architecture shown below in
Figure 3, consists of two agents, namely, the ‘issue collector’ agent and the ‘issue validator’ agent.
The issue collector agent uses an LLM to identify and summarize a set of possible issues with a given
code change. The issue validator agent consists of an LLM that scores each issue collected by the
issue collector agent, followed by a post-processing step which filters out some of the issues based
on this score (using a threshold) as well as some rule based filters. In the following sections, we
describe the prompt design and training of the LLMs used by the issue collector and issue validator
agents.

    1
        We wanted to avoid training reward models with limited data we had.


                                                        3
arXiv submission




                           Figure 1: Code Quality Score System Design


3.1   A NOTE ON DATA FORMAT

We follow past work (Li et al., 2022b; Vijayvergiya et al., 2024) and use a “diff” format to represent
code changes as inputs to the CQS system. An example of this is shown below in Snippet 1. The diff
format is commonly used to show code changes clearly and is generated by comparing the original
version and revised version of code. As compared to using the entire source code file, the diff format
is an efficient representation as code changes are marked with “+” and “-” tags at the beginning of
each line along with some surrounding line of unchanged code for context and file names. See 2




Figure 2: How our system works: An example of code changes in diff format and code quality issues
identified by LLM



                                                  4
arXiv submission




3.2     T HE ‘ ISSUE COLLECTOR ’ AGENT

The issue collector agent is based on a Llama 3.1-70b model. It scans the proposed code changes
(diff format) and outputs a list of potential quality issues (for example, around code readability,
complexity, robustness, modularity etc.). For this, we fine-tune a Llama 3.1-70b Instruct model
using an initial training round of SFT followed by DPO training. We prompt the LLM to output a
summary of the all possible issues identified by the model – such a summary includes an issue tag,
function name2 , rationale for the issue, file path and line number. We include a list of potential issue
tags in the LLM prompt for the model to choose from but also take into account any novel tags that
the model may occasionally come up with. See Appendix A.1 for a detailed example of how we
prompt the issue collector agent.

3.3     T HE ‘ ISSUE VALIDATOR ’ AGENT

For a diff, the set of issues identified by the issue collector LLM are not directly shown in the
UI. Instead, the outputs are sent to an issue validator agent, which uses another fine-tuned Llama
3.1-70b model under the hood, to critically access the validity and relevance of each identified
issue, and outputs a score on a scale of 0-10. For some issues (based on issue tag), we include
specific guidelines in the prompt to help the model focus on particular elements when validating
these issues. The outputs of the collector and validator agents are post-processed to filter out issues
using a combination of rule based filtering logic and the score outputted by the validator agent,
before the code review is shown in the UI. Next, we give details of how the collector and validator
LLMs were fine-tuned.

3.4     M ODEL T RAINING

We describe in detail the training paradigm we use to fine-tune the issue collector and validator
LLMs. As mentioned before, both these LLMs are fine-tuned using the Llama 3.1 70b Instruct
model as the base checkpoint.

3.4.1    I SSUE C OLLECTOR LLM
The issue collector LLM is trained in two phases – the initial model is fine-tuned using SFT – which
is followed by a round of offline-RL based fine-tuning using DPO. This is a commonly used recipe
for fine-tuning foundation models – our motivation for this choice was to teach the model about
developer preferences using SFT and then do DPO training for better generalization3 . We also do
ablations with the SFT model and a DPO model trained without doing SFT first. Doing a round of
SFT training before DPO seems to help improve the recall rate. See Section 5.1 for details.

Phase 1: Supervised Fine-tuning (SFT) For SFT training, we have collected large amount of
human reviewed ”diffs” from Meta’s internal codebase in recent 2 years, the diffs covers a wide
range of tasks/projects/services. We have applied a variety of rules to filter down to a dataset of code
changes which were identified to contain good quality human reviews. The set of code changes we
collect cover a wide ranging set of tasks, projects, and services, including 7 different programming
languages, with the majority of code changes evenly split between Python, C++ and PHP. For dataset
creation, we do apply some filters – for example, we only consider diffs with more than 1 review
comment and discard diffs authored by a bot or those that were solely created for testing purposes.
In addition, we only selected code changes that were aimed specifically to solve code quality issues4
and curated a total of approximately 6000 diffs. For each diff, we classify every human reviewer
comment into “tags” of possible issue the human reviewer may be referring to and create a “code
review” which contains issue tag, comment by the human reviewer along with the function name
(NULL if the comment does not refer to any function), file path and line number for each issue.
   2
     For the function name, we prompt the model to output NULL in case the identified issue is with code
change that is not a part of any function.
   3
     The preference data for DPO training was sampled from the model itself. By doing a round of SFT before,
our goal was to be able to capture developer preferences in the DPO training data as well.
   4
     The kind of issues around ‘Readability and Maintainability’, ‘Modularity and Reusability’ etc. that we
want to identify. For reference, please see the prompt we use for the issue collector LLM in Appendix A.1 for
details about the major issue categories that we aim for the issue collector LLM to identify.


                                                     5
arXiv submission




However, even in this curated dataset of (diff, code review), we found a considerable portion of
examples where at some lines of the code change, the human review comments were not useful or
did not have any clear guidance. To do further filtering, we use a Llama 3.1 70b Instruct model by
prompting it to analyze the quality of the human reviewer comments and to grade them (classify
as “good” or “bad”). We also instruct the model to rewrite the human comments into “rationales”
for the issue. See Appendix A.2 for details about the prompt we use. From each code change, we
dropped issues where human comments were classified as “bad” by the Llama model and obtained
a set of 5000 (diff, code reviews), each with details about high quality issues derived from human
comments. We use this dataset to do supervised fine-tuning (SFT). The entire data curation and
training pipeline for Phase 1 is illustrated below in Figure 3.




        Figure 3: Phase 1 training of the Issue Collector LLM using Supervised Fine-tuning


Phase 2: Offline RL using Direct Preference Optimization (DPO) We further fine-tune the
SFT checkpoint (obtained after phase 1 training) using DPO (Rafailov et al., 2023), an offline RL
algorithm popularly used for reinforcement learning fine-tuning. DPO training requires data in
the form of preference pairs, consisting of a ‘winner’ and a ‘loser’ response for each input, and
attempts to increase the log probabilities of tokens in the ‘winner’ response while decreasing the log
probabilities of tokens in the ‘loser’ response. Concretely, for a dataset D of preference pairs, the
training objective for DPO is given by:

                                                                                         
                                                         πθ (yw |x)           πθ (yl |x)
         LDPO (πθ ; πref ) = −E(x,yw ,yl )∼D log σ β log              − β log                 ,
                                                         πref (yw |x)         πref (yl |x)

where πθ is the policy being trained, πref is the reference model (in our case it is the SFT policy
obtained after Phase 1 training), x represents the input (in our case, the code changes in form of a
diff), yw and yl are the ‘winner’ and ‘loser’ responses respectively (in our case, a pair of correct and
incorrect issues identified in the code review), and β is the temperature parameter controlling the
strength of the KL penalty.
To create preference pairs, we used an LLM-judge to score generations from the SFT model (essen-
tially, to score each issue identified in the model generated code review). An alternate way to score
generations is to use human annotations instead – however, obtaining such human feedback was less
scalable for us (we found developers less willing to compare and judge two code reviews) and so we
relied on the LLM-judge model. To sample diverse generations, we rely on using high temperature
sampling only. Recent work in literature (Nguyen et al., 2024; Hsu et al., 2025) has explored alter-
nate methods to improve diversity of the sampled generations which could be interesting to explore
in our setting as well – we leave this exploration for future work.


                                                   6
arXiv submission




                                                                                        (j)
We prompt the LLM-judge to score each issue in a code review (i.e. each issue in yi in Equation
1 below) on a scale of 0 to 10 – a score of 0 if the issue identified was found to be entirely incorrect
or empty, and a score between 1 to 10 to grade the quality/correctness of the issue identified. See
Appendix A.4 for the detailed prompt we use to score generations using LLM-judge.

                                    (1)   (2)        (N )
                                 {yi , yi , . . . , yi      } ∼ πSFT (·|xi )
                                 (j)                 (j)
                                si = LLM-Judge(xi , yi ) ∈ [0, 10]                                  (1)

The pseudo-code for creating preference pairs using LLM-judge scores is shown in Algorithm 1
below. For each code change, we compare all pairs of model generated code reviews and for each
pair, we compare issues with the same issue tag but different scores (as graded by the LLM-judge)
– if the score difference is greater than a threshold (chosen empirically), we add this pair of issues
to our training dataset for DPO training. This way, we were able to obtain a set of 8400 preference
pairs using the set of 5000 diffs we had curated (we used the same set of diffs as we used for SFT
training in phase 1). The data creation pipeline we used for DPO is shown below in Figure 4.

Algorithm 1 Make Issue-wise Preference Pairs for DPO
                                                                               (j)
 1: Inputs: code changes xi , model generated code reviews {yi }10
                                                                j=1 , threshold δ, prefer-
    ence pairs ← [ ]
 2: for each xi do
                    (j)                                                  (j)
 3:     issue list(yi ) ← extract list of issues from each code review yi .
 4:     for all {(a, b) | a ∈ issue list(yij ), b ∈ issue list(yik )} do
 5:         if a.tag = b.tag and |a.score − b.score| ≥ δ then
 6:             preference pairs.append({xi , chosen=a, rejected=b})
 7:         end if
 8:     end for
 9: end for
10: return preference pairs




Figure 4: Phase 2 training of the Issue Collector LLM with DPO using LLM-judge to create prefer-
ence pairs

We describe training of the LLM-judge below in Section 3.4.2 since we also use the LLM-judge
model as a part of the validator agent.

3.4.2   I SSUE VALIDATOR AGENT
The issue validator agent consists of the LLM-judge model and a post-processing step to filter out
incorrect issues before code reviews are shown in the UI.

LLM-judge model: Our motivation for training an LLM-judge model and use it for creating pref-
erence pairs for DPO training was that we we found developers more willing to ”critique” individual
responses rather than eyeball and compare two responses. Therefore, we aimed to distill this devel-
oper feedback into an LLM-judge model. To do this, we follow a recent proposal by Ke et al. (2023)
and fine-tune a Llama 3.1-70b Instruct model to generate good “critiques” of a code review, to imi-
tate how a human developer would judge a code review. Recall that we use the LLM-judge model to
score code review responses sampled from the SFT model on a scale of 0-10; therefore, we need the


                                                     7
arXiv submission




LLM-judge model to provide fine-grained distinguish-ability between different sampled responses.
The key finding of Ke et al. (2023) is that state-of-the-art LLMs like ChatGPT, GPT-4 etc. lack
the ability to generate informative “critiques” to evaluate and grade LLM-generated responses on
different real-world NLP tasks such as AlignBench (Liu et al., 2023) and LLMEval Zhang et al.
(2024). However, fine-tuning on a small data set of good quality “critiques” improves a models abil-
ity to generate granular scores on LLM-generated responses. The resulting model tends to not only
perform well on evaluation tasks but can also be used to provide scalable feedback in an fine-tuning
loop.
The data curation and training pipeline for the LLM-judge model is illustrated below in Figure
5. To acquire “critiques” for LLM-judge training, we rolled out the SFT model (obtained after
phase 1 training) to a group of developers for beta testing. For each code change, the SFT model
generated a code review with different identified issues, and developers were asked to provide both
textual feedback (“critique” of each issue identified by the model) and click a thumbs up/down
button (to indicate if they agreed or disagreed with the issue identified). This way we were able to
collect developer feedback in the form of (“critiques”, “grades”) pairs for every issue for a set of
approximately 1500 diffs.
However, we observed that not all developer critiques were of high quality and thus we used another
Llama 3.1-70 Instruct model to analyze the critiques written by developer, rewrite them and score
(see Appendix A.3 for the exact prompt we use). We then filter away developer feedback which was
judged to have low quality critiques and use the remaining developer feedback for LLM-judge model
training using SFT. For this round of SFT, we use code changes and the corresponding model gen-
erated code reviews as inputs, and the curated set of code review critiques obtained from developer
feedback as SFT targets.




Figure 5: LLM-judge training. We curate high quality developer feedback (code review critique,
thumbs up/down) for model generated code reviews sampled from the SFT checkpoint of the issue
collector LLM. This developer feedback is then used to SFT a Llama model to be good at generating
human like critiques and grades for model generated code reviews.

Post-processing: Even though the LLM-judge we trained is able to evaluate LLM-generate code
reviews well (significantly better than the base Llama 3.1-70b Instruct model), it isn’t perfect. There-
fore, the issue collector LLM, trained on a limited dataset of human code reviews and preference
pairs created by LLM-judge scores, can sometimes generate code reviews which are inaccurate and
misleading
To counter this, we add layers of sanity checks before sharing the code review in the UI. For example,
we score all code reviews generated by the issue collector LLM using the LLM-judge model (see
Appendix A.5 for the exact prompt we use) and take this score into account as a filter to check if


                                                   8
arXiv submission




the code review passes a quality threshold. In addition, we also have numerous hard coded filters
specific to each issue tag and programming language as we observed empirically the issue accuracy
varies across tags and languages. The code review needs to pass all these filters to be shown in our
internal UI and shared with the author.


4       E VALUATION D ESIGN

To create an evaluation dataset for CQS, we designed a pipeline which uses multiple frontier LLMs5
such as GPT-4o, Claude 3.7 Sonnet and Gemini-2.5-pro to generate code reviews for a small set of
code changes (separate from those used as part of training data). We then use human annotators to
analyze and label each issue identified in the code reviews, and produce a small set of (diff, code
review) pairs which we use as the evaluation benchmark. During evaluation runs, we use semi-
deterministic verification to produce evaluation metrics.

LLM based code reviews: To generate code reviews from state-of-the-art LLMs, we collect a set
of 200 diffs that cover a diverse set of projects, across 7 programming languages with a majority of
these being either C++, PHP or Python. As mentioned above, to maximize issue coverage we use
GPT-4o, Claude 3.7 Sonnet and Gemini-2.5-pro to generate “candidate” code reviews.

Human annotation and evaluation dataset: After generating code reviews using state-of-the-
art LLMs, we engage with multiple engineers to review the issues identified. Each code change is
assigned to at least two engineers. For each code review, we only keep issue where both engineers
agree on issue tag, line number and issue rationale – issues on which engineers disagree are discarded
which ensures trustworthiness of our evaluation dataset. This resulted in a final set of approximately
80 (diff, code review) pairs with each containing approximately 2-4 “consensus” issues identified.

Evaluation protocol and metrics: During evaluation runs, we apply both rule based and semantic
matching to compare code reviews generated by the CQS system with those in the evaluation dataset,
issue by issue. We do this by constructing an automatic verifier that first performs an exact string
matching check for issue tags. If the tag match is successful, we compare the rationale for each issue
– this is done using a lightweight Llama 3.1-8b model given the comparison task here is simple6 . In
addition, we also eyeballed some issue comparisons as a sanity check for our metrics.

Bias in evaluation data: A challenge in evaluating quality of code reviews generated from a
system like CQS is that ground truth can be incomplete and biased, since human annotations can
be insufficient and often noisy (Vijayvergiya et al. (2024); Li et al. (2022b)). We also struggle with
similar issues. Since we use GPT-4o, Claude 3.7 Sonnet and Gemini-2.5-pro to collect issues, the
evaluation data is heavily biased towards these models. While we asked multiple senior engineers
to validate each issue, this did not get rid of the bias since we did not ask them to identify possible
issues which might have been missed by the frontier LLMs. In addition, during validation, engineers
were also able to see the model name for each identified issue – we think this might have further
amplified bias towards the Claude 3.7 Sonnet model.


5       R ESULTS

In this section, we present evaluation results. We primarily evaluate the CQS system on two metrics
– precision, i.e the fraction of issues identified by CQS that were also identified in the evaluation
dataset that we curated, and recall, i.e. the fraction of issues identified in the evaluation dataset that
CQS is also able to successfully identify. The CQS system design and prompt design is aimed at
improving precision while fine-tuning different components is aimed at optimizing for both precision
and recall. We do note that these results should be read in context of the bias in the evaluation dataset
as mentioned above in Section 4. Despite this, the CQS system shows impressive precision rate as
shown in Table 2.
    5
   We use multiple LLMs to maximize coverage of the possible issues that can be identified.
    6
   We didn’t use BLEU score as done in Li et al. (2022b), given the cost of using a lightweight Llama 3.1-8b
model during evaluation runs is small.


                                                     9
arXiv submission




5.1   F INE - TUNING THE ISSUE COLLECTOR LLM

In Table 1 below, we compare the precision and recall rates for different fine-tuning recipes we tried
while training the issue collector LLM. Note, we report the numbers averaged over 10 evaluation
runs. As can be seen, the SFT trained model seems to be at par (even slight regression in terms of
recall rates) as compared to the base Llama 3.1-70b Instruct model. However, DPO trained models
do show improvements. While directly fine-tuning the base model with DPO shows a 3% lift in
precision, it does not improve recall. On the other hand, a combination of SFT and DPO improves
both precision and recall rates by 2% and 1% respectively indicating improved generalization. A
takeaway from our results is that using an LLM-judge model (even with very limited data) seems to
have worked – it will be interesting to see the performance gains that can be achieved by improving
the LLM-judge model using more developer feedback. We leave this investigation for future work.
A noteworthy observation from our results is that fine-tuning using DPO directly from the base
model yields a lower recall rate than following the SFT + DPO recipe. A possible explanation could
be that doing SFT on human code reviews as a first step likely helps the model mimic developer
preferences more closely. Another interesting observation is that only doing DPO training results in
the model identifying smaller number of issues overall as compared to the base Llama model as well
as the SFT model. Recall that during DPO training, we created “winner” and “loser” samples in each
preference pair with exactly one issue – so the training data does not have any bias towards smaller
number of issues. We found this to be a bit surprising but do not have a very good explanation for it.
The huge gap between Llama 3.1 70b models and other state-of-the-art models like Claude 3.7
Sonnet, GPT-4o and Gemini 2.5-pro is also noteworthy. Although the Gemini 2.5-pro model has a
better precision rate, Claude 3.7 Sonnet seems to be the best performing model overall. We would
like to remind the readers again of the caveat that since these models were used as part of the
evaluation dataset creation (see Section 4), it is very likely that the precision and recall rates are
biased. Nevertheless, the numbers do show a significant advantage of the Claude, GPT and Gemini
models.

                     Model                        # issues found      precision (%)      recall (%)
         Baseline Llama-3.1-70b Instruct                138               11.28             8.14
          Llama 3.1-70b Instruct + SFT                  130               11.14             7.62
         Llama-3.1-70B Instruct + DPO                   103               14.56             7.82
      Llama 3.1-70B Instruct + SFT + DPO                131               13.48             9.25
                Claude 3.7 Sonnet                       193               30.43            30.58
                     GPT-4o                             233               24.33            29.53
                 Gemini-2.5-pro                         134               32.77            22.53

Table 1: Evaluation metrics: precision & recall rates across different stage of training. Here “# issue
found” refers to the total number of issues identified by the model over the entire evaluation dataset.


5.2   M ULTI - STAGE P ROMPT O PTIMIZATION

While designing the CQS system, we prioritize precision over recall to ensure developer trust in
the service7 . In Table 2 below, we show how the precision rates change for different system con-
figurations. As compared to only using the issue collector agent, using the issue validator agent
(LLM-judge scores along with rule based filters) is really helpful in improving the precision rate of
the CQS system.
We also benchmark against a setting where we use two Claude 3.7 Sonnet models, one for issue
collection and the other as LLM-judge for scoring the collected issue, along with post-processing
using rule based filters. As can be seen in Table 2 below, while this does lift precision (from 30.43%
to 51.63%), it lags in comparison to the CQS system using fine-tuned Llama models. The LLM-
judge model used for scoring (as part of issue validator agent) seems to be responsible for this gap
   7
     Developers want the system identified issues to be valid and are fine with the system not being able to
identify all issues.


                                                    10
arXiv submission




– off-the- shelf Claude 3.7 Sonnet model is unable to distinguish between valid and invalid issues
as compared to the Llama 3.1 70b LLM-judge model we trained. This is expected as prior research
shows fine-tuning large language models (even with a small dataset of high quality) can be effective
in improving its accuracy as a judge model (Ke et al., 2023; Wang et al., 2024).


                       Method                            Avg precision (%)        Avg recall (%)
                Issue collector agent                           13.48                   9.25
      Issue collector and Issue validator agent
                                                                78.20                   1.20
        (including post-processing filtering)
  Claude 3.7 Sonnet (for both issue collection and
                                                                51.63                   11.45
   issue validation) and post-processing filtering

          Table 2: Precision/recall rates through the different stages of the CQS system.



5.3   LLM - JUDGE EVALUATION


Recall that we trained the LLM-judge model using developer feedback on code reviews generated
by the SFT checkpoint. From this developer feedback, we also create a small dataset of 200 code
reviews with thumbs up/down signal to evaluate the LLM-judge model – with 100 positive examples
(code reviews with a thumbs up) and 100 negative examples (code reviews with a thumbs down).
On this evaluation data set, our LLM-judge model scored a 62% accuracy as compared to a 56%
accuracy scored by a Llama 3.1-70b Instruct model. We give details of a small ablation study on the
effect of SFT for LLM-judge model training in Appendix C.


5.4   O NLINE R ESULTS

CQS has been rolled out to a large number of developers with consistently good user feedback. For
instance, it has an average 60% WoW user helpfulness rate (WoW helpfulness rate is the percentage
of positive feedback that developers have shared by clicking a thumbs-up/down button in the code
review UI). While we see a correlation between improvements in precision and user helpfulness rate,
it is not directly proportional. A potential reason could be the small size of our evaluation dataset –
model selection based on improvements in our evaluation metrics may not transfer when the system
is rolled out to a diverse set of code changes. We currently observe a ±10% confidence interval on
the WoW user helpfulness rate and are working on increasing the size, quality and coverage of our
evaluation dataset.


5.5   D ISCUSSION

We note a couple of observations from our experience designing the CQS system. First, we found
LLM-judge model performance to be critical for DPO training. This is expected – reward/feedback
quality is known to be the key component in RL based fine-tuning of LLMs and more generally in
RL as well. Training high quality reward models with limited feedback data (such as our context)
seems to be an important research question. While current work has leveraged textual reasoning
using critiques Ankner et al. (2024) or supervised fine-tuning techniques Ke et al. (2023); Wang
et al. (2024) to enhance performance of LLM-judge models, other ideas such as using reasoning
models with multiple evaluation rubrics might be useful in training robust reward models.
Second, the idea of using an LLM-judge model and rule based filtering as part of the issue validator
agent was motivated by developer expectations of high precision rates from a system like CQS.
As can be seen in Table 1, even frontier models have low stand-alone precision rates (< 33%)
for identifying code quality issues. It will be interesting to see how these precision rates improve
with the next generation of frontier models. Despite improvements we made with the CQS system,
extracting high-quality, actionable code review comments for diff remains a significant challenge.


                                                  11
arXiv submission




6   C ONCLUSION AND F UTURE W ORK
The Code Quality Score (CQS) system we designed has shown good performance with early adop-
tion by large number of developers and good feedback with a 60% week-over-week user helpfulness
rate. Although Llama models lag state-of-the-art closed source models like Claude model series on
issue collection tasks, we were able to fine-tune them using developer feedback to improve their
performance on issue collection and validation tasks, and leverage them effectively in a multi-agent
system to achieve a better precision rate overall (with issue validator agent). As Llama models
improve and close the gap with other state-of-the art models, we hope to further improve the perfor-
mance of our system.
We also plan to further enhance the CQS system by leveraging online developer feedback to build a
data flywheel that can be used to continuously improve Llama models on issue collection and vali-
dations tasks. Another direction for future work that we plan to pursue is to go beyond code quality
issues and expand the CQS system to identify complex issues related to security vulnerabilities and
performance.
Although AI driven code review systems are still in their early stages, early results are encouraging
in terms of adoption and satisfaction rates. As these systems mature, they are not only expected
to reduce human review burden but also bring long-term improvements to the codebase health –
although quantifying these benefits is a complex exercise that requires continuous data collection
and monitoring. We leave such studies for future work.

7   ACKNOWLEDGEMENT
We thank the team members and leadership in Meta’s monetization organization for their support
in developing and deploying the Code Quality Score system, including Wenlin Chen, Hung Duong,
Shah Rahman, Ritwik Tewari, Santanu Kolay, Neeraj Bhatia, Matt Steiner, Peng Fan




                                                 12
arXiv submission




R EFERENCES
Zachary Ankner, Mansheej Paul, Brandon Cui, Jonathan D Chang, and Prithviraj Ammanabrolu.
  Critique-out-loud reward models. arXiv preprint arXiv:2408.11791, 2024.
Tom Brown, Benjamin Mann, Nick Ryder, Melanie Subbiah, Jared D Kaplan, Prafulla Dhariwal,
  Arvind Neelakantan, Pranav Shyam, Girish Sastry, Amanda Askell, et al. Language models are
  few-shot learners. Advances in neural information processing systems, 33:1877–1901, 2020.
Lan Cheng, Emerson Murphy-Hill, Mark Canning, Ciera Jaspan, Collin Green, Andrea Knight, Nan
  Zhang, and Elizabeth Kammer. What improves developer productivity at google? code quality. In
  Proceedings of the 30th ACM Joint European Software Engineering Conference and Symposium
  on the Foundations of Software Engineering, pp. 1302–1313, 2022.
Aakanksha Chowdhery, Sharan Narang, Jacob Devlin, Maarten Bosma, Gaurav Mishra, Adam
  Roberts, Paul Barham, Hyung Won Chung, Charles Sutton, Sebastian Gehrmann, et al. Palm:
  Scaling language modeling with pathways. Journal of Machine Learning Research, 24(240):
  1–113, 2023.
CodeRabbit.   Awesome coderabbit.       https://github.com/coderabbitai/
  awesome-coderabbit, 2024. Accessed: 2025-06-26.
Chan-Jan Hsu, Davide Buffelli, Jamie McGowan, Feng-Ting Liao, Yi-Chang Chen, Sattar Vakili,
  and Da-shan Shiu. Group think: Multiple concurrent reasoning agents collaborating at token level
  granularity. arXiv preprint arXiv:2505.11107, 2025.
Pei Ke, Bosi Wen, Zhuoer Feng, Xiao Liu, Xuanyu Lei, Jiale Cheng, Shengyuan Wang, Aohan Zeng,
  Yuxiao Dong, Hongning Wang, et al. Critiquellm: Towards an informative critique generation
  model for evaluation of large language model generation. arXiv preprint arXiv:2311.18702, 2023.
Dongyoung Kim, Kimin Lee, Jinwoo Shin, and Jaehyung Kim. Aligning large language models
  with self-generated preference data. arXiv preprint arXiv:2406.04412, 2024.
Lingwei Li, Li Yang, Huaxi Jiang, Jun Yan, Tiejian Luo, Zihan Hua, Geng Liang, and Chun Zuo.
  Auger: automatically generating review comments with pre-training models. In Proceedings of
  the 30th ACM Joint European Software Engineering Conference and Symposium on the Founda-
  tions of Software Engineering, pp. 1009–1021, 2022a.
Zhiyu Li, Shuai Lu, Daya Guo, Nan Duan, Shailesh Jannu, Grant Jenks, Deep Majumder, Jared
  Green, Alexey Svyatkovskiy, Shengyu Fu, et al. Automating code review activities by large-scale
  pre-training. In Proceedings of the 30th ACM Joint European Software Engineering Conference
  and Symposium on the Foundations of Software Engineering, pp. 1035–1047, 2022b.
Xiao Liu, Xuanyu Lei, Shengyuan Wang, Yue Huang, Zhuoer Feng, Bosi Wen, Jiale Cheng, Pei Ke,
  Yifan Xu, Weng Lam Tam, et al. Alignbench: Benchmarking chinese alignment of large language
  models. arXiv preprint arXiv:2311.18743, 2023.
Junyi Lu, Lei Yu, Xiaojia Li, Li Yang, and Chun Zuo. Llama-reviewer: Advancing code review
  automation with large language models through parameter-efficient fine-tuning. In 2023 IEEE
  34th International Symposium on Software Reliability Engineering (ISSRE), pp. 647–658. IEEE,
  2023.
Minh Nhat Nguyen, Andrew Baker, Clement Neo, Allen Roush, Andreas Kirsch, and Ravid
 Shwartz-Ziv. Turning up the heat: Min-p sampling for creative and coherent llm outputs. arXiv
 preprint arXiv:2407.01082, 2024.
Long Ouyang, Jeffrey Wu, Xu Jiang, Diogo Almeida, Carroll Wainwright, Pamela Mishkin, Chong
  Zhang, Sandhini Agarwal, Katarina Slama, Alex Ray, et al. Training language models to fol-
  low instructions with human feedback. Advances in neural information processing systems, 35:
  27730–27744, 2022.
Rafael Rafailov, Archit Sharma, Eric Mitchell, Christopher D Manning, Stefano Ermon, and Chelsea
  Finn. Direct preference optimization: Your language model is secretly a reward model. Advances
  in neural information processing systems, 36:53728–53741, 2023.


                                               13
arXiv submission




Colin Raffel, Noam Shazeer, Adam Roberts, Katherine Lee, Sharan Narang, Michael Matena, Yanqi
  Zhou, Wei Li, and Peter J Liu. Exploring the limits of transfer learning with a unified text-to-text
  transformer. Journal of machine learning research, 21(140):1–67, 2020.
Caitlin Sadowski, Emma Söderberg, Luke Church, Michal Sipko, and Alberto Bacchelli. Modern
  code review: a case study at google. In Proceedings of the 40th international conference on
  software engineering: Software engineering in practice, pp. 181–190, 2018.
Patanamon Thongtanunam, Chanathip Pornprasit, and Chakkrit Tantithamthavorn. Autotransform:
  Automated code transformation to support modern code review process. In Proceedings of the
  44th international conference on software engineering, pp. 237–248, 2022.
Adam Tornhill and Markus Borg. Code red: the business impact of code quality-a quantitative
  study of 39 proprietary production codebases. In Proceedings of the International Conference on
  Technical Debt, pp. 11–20, 2022.
Hugo Touvron, Thibaut Lavril, Gautier Izacard, Xavier Martinet, Marie-Anne Lachaux, Timothée
  Lacroix, Baptiste Rozière, Naman Goyal, Eric Hambro, Faisal Azhar, et al. Llama: Open and
  efficient foundation language models. arXiv preprint arXiv:2302.13971, 2023.
Rosalia Tufano, Simone Masiero, Antonio Mastropaolo, Luca Pascarella, Denys Poshyvanyk, and
  Gabriele Bavota. Using pre-trained models to boost code review automation. In Proceedings of
  the 44th international conference on software engineering, pp. 2291–2302, 2022.
Manushree Vijayvergiya, Małgorzata Salawa, Ivan Budiselić, Dan Zheng, Pascal Lamblin, Marko
 Ivanković, Juanjo Carin, Mateusz Lewko, Jovan Andonov, Goran Petrović, et al. Ai-assisted as-
 sessment of coding practices in modern code review. In Proceedings of the 1st ACM International
 Conference on AI-Powered Software, pp. 85–93, 2024.
Tianlu Wang, Ilia Kulikov, Olga Golovneva, Ping Yu, Weizhe Yuan, Jane Dwivedi-Yu,
  Richard Yuanzhe Pang, Maryam Fazel-Zarandi, Jason Weston, and Xian Li. Self-taught eval-
  uators. arXiv preprint arXiv:2408.02666, 2024.
Titus Winters, Tom Manshreck, and Hyrum Wright. Software engineering at google: Lessons
   learned from programming over time. ” O’Reilly Media, Inc.”, 2020.
Weizhe Yuan, Richard Yuanzhe Pang, Kyunghyun Cho, Sainbayar Sukhbaatar, Jing Xu, and Jason
 Weston. Self-rewarding language models. arXiv preprint arXiv:2401.10020, 3, 2024.
Yue Zhang, Ming Zhang, Haipeng Yuan, Shichun Liu, Yongyao Shi, Tao Gui, Qi Zhang, and Xu-
  anjing Huang. Llmeval: A preliminary study on how to evaluate large language models. In
  Proceedings of the AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence, volume 38, pp. 19615–19622,
  2024.
Daniel M Ziegler, Nisan Stiennon, Jeffrey Wu, Tom B Brown, Alec Radford, Dario Amodei, Paul
  Christiano, and Geoffrey Irving. Fine-tuning language models from human preferences. arXiv
  preprint arXiv:1909.08593, 2019.




                                                 14
arXiv submission




A     A PPENDIX : DIFFERENT PROMPTS USED
We list the prompts that were used for different LLMs.

A.1   S YSTEM INSTRUCTION FOR THE ISSUE COLLECTOR LLM

    === Raw Source Control Code Changes BEGIN ===
    code changes go here
    === Raw Source Control Code Changes END ===

    === Context for the Code Change BEGIN ===
    The following additional information from the author may
    provide context about the code changes and their purpose:
    Title: title
    Summary: summary of code changes
    === Context for the Code Change END ===

    Your task is to provide constructive and concise feedback for
    the code changes based on the following criteria (each goes
    with a tag name in the beginning):
     • DedupeLogic: Deduplicate logic into shared functions
       except for logging.
     • DictionaryKeyExistenceCheck: Check for dictionary key
       existence before accessing it.
     • UseConstant: Use constants instead of literals, unless
       it’s a constant definition.
     • RenamingVariable: Variable names should be pronounceable,
       easily readable, and reveal intent.
     • DomainSpecificName: Use solution domain names, computer
       science (CS) terms, algorithm names, pattern names, math
       terms. When there is no name from the solution domain
       then prefer problem domain names.
     • BreakdownLongFunction: Break down long functions into
       smaller, more focused functions. Only include this issue
       if the length of the current function is longer than 50
       lines.
     • ExtractMethod: When we have a block of code that can be
       extracted into a separate method, we should do so.
     • ResourceLeak: A resource handle (e.g., file, socket,
       connection) is not properly wrapped in a context manager
       or try-with-resources construct or use a with statement in
       Python.
     • Documentation: Docstring should match the code, and
       be added for each major unit. Pay extra attention to
       different types of docstrings.
     • DivisionByZero: When performing division operations,
       ensure that the divisor is checked to be non-zero before
       proceeding with the calculation.
     • Typo: A typo is detected in the code.
     • RenamingFunction: Function names should be pronounceable,
       easily readable, and reveal intent.

    In case none of the provided tags are appropriate, you may
    come up with your own tag.



                                               15
arXiv submission




   Code lines are prefixed with the line number, followed by
   symbols (’+’, ’-’, ’ ’). The ’+’ symbol indicates new code
   added, the ’-’ symbol indicates code removed, and the ’ ’
   symbol indicates unchanged code. The review should address
   new code added (lines starting with ’+’).


   Pay attention to what part of the code has changed, you
   should only grade the code that has changed, and ignore the
   rest.

   Example output:

   {
       "function": "[exact function name from code]",
       "rationale": "[clear explanation of the issue and suggested
       improvement]",
       "file": "[file path where the function is located]",
       "line": [numeric line number],
       "tag": "[one of the tags as described above]"
   }

   Note you should not be overly critic and generate many bullet
   points. Please pin-point the ‘problematic function’ with
   issues, and don’t forget to include line numbers. The
   output field ‘problematic function’ is mandatory in the
   response if the problem is inside a function. The output
   field ‘relevant file’ should include full path of the file
   (including directory and filename). In your response, do
   not describe what the code changes is about because the code
   author already knows about it. Pay attention to the code
   change.


   The output field ‘rationale’ would be shown to the author
   of code changes. Please use a polite and suggestive tone
   for the ‘rationale’ field, provide a reasoning and give
   suggestions using a question instead of a command.




                                  16
arXiv submission




A.2    S YSTEM I NSTRUCTION FOR R EWRITING HUMAN COMMENTS INTO “ ISSUE
       RATIONALES ”




   You are given a code change and a corresponding code review.

   Here are the code changes:
   === Raw Source Control Code Change BEGIN ===
   code changes go here
   === Raw Source Control Code Change END ===

   Here is the code review in yaml format:
   === Code Review (YAML FORMAT) BEGIN ===
   ‘‘‘yaml
   {
     "Function": ...,
     "Rationale": ...,
     "File": ...,
     "Line": ...,
     "Tag": ...
   }
   === Code Review (YAML FORMAT) END ===

   Please reason and understand the code review and carefully
   follow the instructions below.

   First, please do an initial assessment of the code review
   to try to roughly understand what the reviewer’s objective.
   Then, try to explain if the rationale in reviewer’s comments
   is logical. You may or may not have a clear understanding
   of what the rationale might be, so you can propose multiple
   hypothesis. For example:

   ‘‘Hypothesis: In file xyz.py, at line 100, the
   reviewer is referring to an issue in the definition of
   ‘ProblematicFunction’, and if the reviewer’s comment is not
   addressed, it could cause X/Y/Z’’

   After you propose hypothesis, reflect on them and answer the
   following questions:
      1. Is the provided rationale addressing the issue in the
         give code change or it’s referring to some context
         outside of the given code change?
      2. Is the rationale linking to external references/links?
      3. Is the rationale explicitly pointing out issues? Or is
         it just an inquiry because the review is not sure either?
      4. Is the reviewer’s suggestion actionable? Or is it just
         some general suggestions that does not have clear action
         items?
      5. Is the reviewer nitpicking?         For example, saying
         something like "nit...."

   After you have answered these questions, you should have a
   clear judgment of the "quality" of the review. Typically,
   bad quality reviews have the following characteristics:



                                        17
arXiv submission




      • Out of context: reviews which link to external
        references or refer to something outside of the given
        code change.
      • Nitpicking.
      • Not actionable.
      • Reviews which do not detect SPECIFIC issues but are more
        general suggestions or free discussions.

   If the review quality is good, please rewrite the rationale
   from an AI Assistant’s perspective. Here are the hints to
   derive a good rationale:
      • Try to VERIFY each hypothesis you proposed, using facts
        in the code change content.
      • Summarize the verified hypothesis
      • Try to refine the summary to a concise form, the final
        derived rationale should be specific, helpful and
        actionable.

   Finally, please output a <conclusion> in the following
   format. Note, if it’s a bad quality review, you can set
   ‘review rewrite‘ field as null.
   {
   <conclusion>
      review_quality: {good/bad}
      review_rewrite: {human comment rewritten by an AI assistant}
   </conclusion>
   }

   Please stop after writing the <conclusion> and don’t output
   anything else.




                                  18
arXiv submission




A.3    P ROMPT TO REWRITE HUMAN FEEDBACK INTO CRITIQUES FOR LLM - JUDGE TRAINING

   You are given a code review and a corresponding feedback
   to the review from developers. Your task is to analyze
   the developer feedback and grade it, in context of the code
   changes and code review.

   Here are the code changes:
   === Raw Source Control Diff BEGIN ===
   code changes go here
   === Raw Source Control Diff END ===

   Here are the code review comments for code changes above
   {
       "Function": ...,
       "Rationale": ...,
       "File": ...,
       "Line": ...,
       "Tag": ...
   }

   And here is the human feedback to the code review.
   {
     "human sentiment": {positive/negative (thumbs up/down)}
     "human feedback comments": {}
   }
   Note that "human feedback comments" could be empty if the
   user did not provide any. The "human sentiment" is positive
   if they agree with the review and negative otherwise.

   Please make sure you understand the code change, code review
   and the human feedback. Then, come up the following:
      1. human feedback quality: a score from 0-5 about the
         quality of human feedback. A good feedback should
         specifically point out the problem in the code review.
         Output a score of 0 if you did not understand the
         feedback at all.
      2. critique: rewrite the human feedback to one sentence
         critique by using your knowledge of software engineering.
         If the feedback is of low quality or not available,
         please write your own based on the positive or negative
         sentiment.

   Write your thoughts, and then respond with the following yaml
   format:
   ‘‘‘yaml
   "human_feedback_quality": {0-5, 0 means you did not understand
       the human feedback at all}
   "critique": {one sentence critique to the code review}
   ‘‘‘




                                        19
arXiv submission




A.4   S YSTEM I NSTRUCTION FOR LLM - JUDGE SCORING

   You are a language model that specializes in evaluating
   reviews for a code change. You are given details of a code
   change as input and a list of corresponding issues/code
   suggestions identified. Your goal is to inspect and review
   the issues/code suggestions, and score.

   Be aware - the issues/suggestions may not always be correct
   or accurate, and you should evaluate them in relation to the
   actual code changes presented.

   Carefully review both the suggestion content, and the related
   code change. Mistakes in the suggestions can occur. Make
   sure the suggestions are correct, and properly derived from
   the code changes. Mark each issue/suggestion as valid or
   invalid.

   Score the suggestions: high scores (8 to 10) should be given
   to correct suggestions that address major bugs and issues,
   or security concerns. Lower scores (3 to 7) should be for
   correct suggestions addressing minor issues, code style, code
   readability, maintainability, etc. Don’t give high scores
   to suggestions that are not crucial, and bring only small
   improvement or optimization. Order the feedback the same way
   the suggestions are ordered in the input. Response should be
   a valid YAML and nothing else.

   Here are the code changes and the corresponding code review
   suggestions.
   === Raw Source Control Code Change BEGIN ===
   code changes go here
   === Raw Source Control Code Change END ===

   === Suggestions (YAML Format) BEGIN ===
   ‘‘‘yaml
   {
     "Function": ...,
     "Rationale": ...,
     "File": ...,
     "Line": ...,
     "Tag": ...
   }
   {
     "Function": ...,
     "Rationale": ...,
     "File": ...,
     "Line": ...,
     "Tag": ...
   }
   === Suggestions (YAML Format) END ===


   Here is an example of the expected output format for
   reference. Please review and score each suggestion above.
   === Example Output Format ===
   ‘‘‘yaml



                                         20
arXiv submission




   {
   "Suggestion_content": {rationale}
   "Status": {valid/invalid}
   "Sentiment": {positive if the suggestion is complimenting the
                code changes, negative if the suggestion is
                criticizing the code changes or neutral if uncear)}
   "Line_matching": {yes/no, to check if the line number in the
                  issue description is matching the pre-pending
                  line number shown in the code change}
   "Suggested score": {between 0-10}
   "Score reason" : the code review suggestion is correct and
                  actionable because ...
   }
   ‘‘‘

   Note: you should pay attention to the line number in the
   issue/code suggestion description, and judge if it is
   matching the pre-pending line number shown in the diff
   format. If the code suggestions are empty, just return an
   empty YAML string.


   Now begin. Please format your output according to the
   "Example Output Format" as shown above. Remember to do the
   review and score each code suggestion.




                                21
arXiv submission




A.5   S YSTEM I NSTRUCTION FOR I SSUE VALIDATOR AGENT

   Your input is a difference view of code changes, and a list
   of code issues for it.
   Your goal is to inspect, review the issues and score each of
   them.
   Be aware - the issues may not always be correct or accurate,
   and you should evaluate them in relation to the actual code
   changes presented.


   Review issues. Carefully review both the issue content, and
   the related code changes. Mistakes in the issue can occur.
   Make sure the issues are correct and properly derived from
   the code changes. Mark each issue as valid or invalid.

   Score issues. High scores (8 to 10) should be given to
   correct issues that address major bugs, or security concerns.
   Lower scores (3 to 7) should be for issues that address
   minor concerns for example code style, code readability,
   maintainability, etc. Don’t give high scores to suggestions
   that are not crucial, and bring only small improvement or
   optimization to the code. Incorrect issues should be scored
   as 0. Order the feedback the same way the issues are ordered
   in the input.


   When reviewing issues, pay special attention to the following
   common mistakes:
      • When reviewing documentation issues, verify the presence
        of existing docstrings. If a docstring is already present
        in any form (e.g., as a comment, a description, or a
        formal docstring), without nitpicking about its quality
        or completeness, mark the issue as invalid.
      • When reviewing division by zero issues, carefully examine
        the code to verify that the variable in question is
        indeed used as a divisor in a division operation. If
        the variable is not involved in a division or if zero
        validation has already been performed, mark the issue as
        invalid.
   Record verbosely your thought process in the output field
   "motivation".




                                        22
arXiv submission




B     A PPENDIX : T RAINING D ETAILS

B.1   SFT T RAINING D ETAILS

Starting from llama-3.1-70b-instruct checkpoint, we fine-tune the 5000 SFT CQS examples using
a sequence length of 8192 and a batch size of 64. The learning rate is set to 2e-7, with a warmup
period of 10 steps and minimum rate of 0.1 with cosine annealing schedule. We only SFT for 1
epoch from the instruct checkpoint as we observe the performance start to degrade quickly after 1
epoch of training. We use 4x8 H100 GPUs with tensor parallelism set to 8. The default generation
uses greedy decoding.

B.2   J UDGE M ODEL T RAINING

Starting from llama-3.1-70b-instruct checkpoint, we fine-tune the 1.6k critique examples using a
sequence length of 8192 and a batch size of 32. The LR settings are identical to SFT training above.
We observe the best accuracy at 4th epoch (≈ 200 steps).

B.3   DPO T RAINING D ETAILS

DPO training starts from the SFT-ed 70b checkpoints, we perform DPO training on the 8k preference
pairs generated from judge results. Experiment setups follow a learning rate of 2e-7, with a warmup
period of 25 steps and minimum rate of 0.5 with cosine schedule. The training employs a sequence
length of 8192 and a batch size of 32, the best eval result is observed at 400 step. The DPO training
is enabled with a β=0.1 and utilizes a sigmoid loss function.

C     J UDGE M ODEL S TUDY

The eval set is randomly sampled thumb up/down human feedbacks, such signal can be noisy and
may not clearly demonstrate the effectiveness of judge model. To further study the impact of judge
training, we randomly sampled 1000 CQS issues from eval set, there exists 38 issues where the
trained judge model disagreed with the base Llama 3.1-70b-instruct model – which is, one model
produces -1 score whereas the other produces positive score, or the opposite. We perform manual
inspects on these cases, and the conclusion is that the trained judge model score is more aligned with
developer sentiments: 35 out of 38 cases where they disagree, Judge model produces ”-1” score –
meaning the judge thinks this CQS issue is invalid, while base Llama model thinks it’s a valid issue.
In other words, besides clear lift on eval(62% vs 56%), the SFT training has nudged the model to
produce more negative feedbacks on issues which developers complains. To further examine this
effect, we compare the judge model’s scores on top 3 tags which received most complaints from
beta-testing group (developers complained these issues associated with these 3 tags are typically
low quality, as an example, the model is overly picky on incomplete docstring of a function/class).


                 Table 3: Comparing Jude Scores of Top User Complaint Tags
       Judge Model Documentation           UseConstant           DedupeLogic
       SFT Judge      Avg: 6.01, Std: 1.67 Avg: 5.05, Std: 2.77 Avg: 6.35, Std: 2.40
       Llama 3.1      Avg: 6.28, Std: 1.52 Avg: 5.52, Std: 2.54 Avg: 6.58, Std: 2.18


As evident in the table, after training with user feedback, score of most frequent complaint issues
are suppressed.

D     FAILURE C ASES

Effective code review demands a profound comprehension of the code being reviewed, as well as
extensive knowledge of both the programming language and the underlying business logic. Unfor-
tunately, even SOTA LLMs has proven insufficient in meeting this requirement. The issues they
identify are often misleading or trivial, as illustrated by the following two examples:


                                                 23
arXiv submission




      • Missing language context

            C++ code:
            buffers = new(buffer.data()) EndToEndBuffers

            Issue Description: The constructor now allocates
            memory for ‘EndToEndBuffers’ using the new operator.
            Is it a good idea to use a smart pointer instead to
            avoid potential memory leaks?

        This C++ code utilizes the placement new operator, which does not allocate new memory
        but rather constructs an object in-place. Unfortunately, the LLM overlooked this subtlety
        and incorrectly flagged a memory leak.
      • Nitpicking on extracting shared code

            C++ code:
            const auto& container = getContainer(ad, adToAugment);

            Issue Description: The call ‘getContainer(ad,
            adToAugment)‘ to obtain ‘container‘ is repeated in
            this function (lines 461-463), and similarly in ‘FuncA‘
            (lines 473-475) and ‘FuncB‘ (lines 486-488). Would
            it be beneficial to extract this common logic, perhaps
            into a private helper function within ‘ClassABC‘, to
            improve maintainability and reduce redundancy?

        This C++ code is essentially a straightforward, three-line fetch operation. It’s puzzling that
        the LLM is suggesting extracting this simple fetching logic into a separate function for
        deduplication purposes.




                                                 24
