                                         Fine-Tuning LLMs to Analyze Multiple Dimensions of Code
                                         Review: A Maximum Entropy Regulated Long
                                         Chain-of-Thought Approach
                                         YONGDA YU, Nanjing University, China
                                         GUOHAO SHI, Nanjing University, China
                                         XIANWEI WU, Nanjing University, China
                                         HAOCHUAN HE, Nanjing University, China
arXiv:2509.21170v1 [cs.SE] 25 Sep 2025




                                         XUEMING GU, University of Waterloo, Canada
                                         QIANQIAN ZHAO, Northeastern University, China
                                         KUI LIU, Huawei Technologies Co., Ltd., China
                                         QIUSHI WANG, Huawei Technologies Co., Ltd., China
                                         ZHAO TIAN, Huawei Technologies Co., Ltd., China
                                         HAIFENG SHEN, Southern Cross University, Australia
                                         GUOPING RONG∗ , Nanjing University, China
                                         Large Language Models (LLMs) have shown great potential in supporting automated code review due to
                                         their impressive capabilities in context understanding and reasoning. However, these capabilities are still
                                         limited compared to human-level cognition because they are heavily influenced by the training data. Recent
                                         research has demonstrated significantly improved performance through fine-tuning LLMs with code review
                                         data. However, compared to human reviewers who often simultaneously analyze multiple dimensions of
                                         code review to better identify issues, the full potential of these methods is hampered by the limited or vague
                                         information used to fine-tune the models. This paper contributes MelcotCR, a chain-of-thought (COT) fine-
                                         tuning approach that trains LLMs with an impressive reasoning ability to analyze multiple dimensions of code
                                         review by harnessing long COT techniques to provide rich structured information. To address context loss
                                         and reasoning logic loss issues that frequently occur when LLMs process long COT prompts, we propose a
                                         solution that combines the Maximum Entropy (ME) modeling principle with pre-defined reasoning pathways
                                         in MelcotCR to enable more effective utilization of in-context knowledge within long COT prompts while
                                         strengthening the logical tightness of the reasoning process. Empirical evaluations on our curated MelcotCR
                                         dataset and the public CodeReviewer dataset reveal that a low-parameter base model, such as 14B Qwen2.5,
                                         fine-tuned with MelcotCR can surpass state-of-the-art methods in terms of the accuracy of detecting and
                                         describing code issues, with its performance remarkably on par with that of the 671B DeepSeek-R1 model.
                                         ∗ Guoping Rong is the corresponding author.


                                         Authors’ Contact Information: Yongda Yu, Nanjing University, Nanjing, China, yuyongda@smail.nju.edu.cn; Guo-
                                         hao Shi, Nanjing University, Nanjing, China, 335933870@qq.com; Xianwei Wu, Nanjing University, Nanjing, China,
                                         652024320006@smail.nju.edu.cn; Haochuan He, Nanjing University, Nanjing, China, 1516998446@qq.com; XueMing Gu,
                                         University of Waterloo, Avenue, Canada, x7gu@uwaterloo.ca; Qianqian Zhao, Northeastern University, Shenyang, China,
                                         zhaoqianqian2025@163.com; Kui Liu, Huawei Technologies Co., Ltd., Xi’an, China, kui.liu@huawei.com; Qiushi Wang,
                                         Huawei Technologies Co., Ltd., Xi’an, China, wangqiushi6@huawei.com; Zhao Tian, Huawei Technologies Co., Ltd., Xi’an,
                                         China, tianzhao@huawei.com; Haifeng Shen, Southern Cross University, Gold Coast, Australia, haifeng.shen@scu.edu.au;
                                         Guoping Rong, ronggp@nju.edu.cn, Nanjing University, Nanjing, China.

                                         Permission to make digital or hard copies of all or part of this work for personal or classroom use is granted without fee
                                         provided that copies are not made or distributed for profit or commercial advantage and that copies bear this notice and the
                                         full citation on the first page. Copyrights for components of this work owned by others than the author(s) must be honored.
                                         Abstracting with credit is permitted. To copy otherwise, or republish, to post on servers or to redistribute to lists, requires
                                         prior specific permission and/or a fee. Request permissions from permissions@acm.org.
                                         © 2018 Copyright held by the owner/author(s). Publication rights licensed to ACM.
                                         ACM 1557-735X/2018/8-ART111
                                         https://doi.org/XXXXXXX.XXXXXXX


                                                                                                   J. ACM, Vol. 37, No. 4, Article 111. Publication date: August 2018.
111:2                                                                                         Yu et al.


CCS Concepts: • Software and its engineering → Software creation and management.
Additional Key Words and Phrases: Code Review, Large Language Model, Long Chain-of-Thought
ACM Reference Format:
Yongda Yu, Guohao Shi, Xianwei Wu, Haochuan He, XueMing Gu, Qianqian Zhao, Kui Liu, Qiushi Wang,
Zhao Tian, Haifeng Shen, and Guoping Rong. 2018. Fine-Tuning LLMs to Analyze Multiple Dimensions of
Code Review: A Maximum Entropy Regulated Long Chain-of-Thought Approach. J. ACM 37, 4, Article 111
(August 2018), 22 pages. https://doi.org/XXXXXXX.XXXXXXX

1   Introduction
As a cornerstone practice in software quality assurance, code review plays an irreplaceable role
in modern software development [11]. Traditional manual review processes, which heavily rely
on line-by-line scrutiny of code by developers, are not only time-consuming and labor-intensive
but also heavily dependent on individual reviewers’ expertise, a limitation that has driven the
innovation and advancement of Automated Code Review (ACR) technologies [14, 29, 31, 48, 59].
Recent breakthroughs in AI-driven code analysis based on Large Language Models (LLMs) have
naturally attracted significant research attention to ACR, resulting in multiple LLM-based ACR
systems [31, 59].
   As an LLM’s capability in context understanding and reasoning is highly influenced by its training
data, a common strategy is to fine-tune base LLMs with code-review-specific data so that they can
perform better in ACR tasks. In particular, Liu et al. [31] fine-tuned Llama to create Llama-Reviewer,
which is able to generate review comments through the direct learning of a raw code review dataset
from a previous study [30] to enhance the LLM’s commenting capability. It should be noted that
the information used in fine-tuning is only a direct code-to-comment mapping that lacks analytical
depth. In contrast, Yu et al. developed Carllm [59] that used chain-of-thought (COT) to fine-tune
the base LLMs by decomposing the review process into three progressive stages: defect localization,
review comment generation, and solution proposal. The COT approach provides richer information
for fine-tuning, resulting in improved ACR performance compared to Llama-Reviewer.
   However, compared to human reviewers who often simultaneously consider multiple dimensions
of code review, e.g., code intent, boundary conditions, and invocation relationships, when analyzing
code issues [2, 22], the full potential of LLMs for ACR is hampered by the limited or vague
information used to fine-tune them. Specifically, Llama-Reviewer [31] merely instructs the LLM to
perform ACR via vague prompts, while in Carllm [59], each reasoning step is constrained in such a
way that it only requires the LLM to identify issues without providing much guiding information.
Some studies have revealed a trend that employing COT to prompt LLMs can significantly enhance
their performance in specific tasks [9, 52, 63], while there exists a positive correlation between
COT length and model performance gain [5, 55].
   In this paper, we contribute MelcotCR, a fine-tuning approach that trains LLMs with an impressive
structured reasoning ability to analyze multiple dimensions of code review by harnessing long COT
techniques [5, 54, 57]. It systematically decomposes a code review task into multiple fine-grained
sub-tasks including code functionality summarization, core logic analysis, change impact analysis,
and inspection of multiple concrete issues, thereby stimulating an LLM to generate coherent
reasoning chains. However, a known challenge with long COT is its inherent context loss and
reasoning logic loss issues, as the length of COT increases [5, 55].
   To address this challenge, we propose a solution that combines the Maximum Entropy (ME)
modeling principle with pre-defined reasoning pathways in MelcotCR to enable more effective
utilization of in-context knowledge within long COT prompts while strengthening the logical
tightness of the reasoning process. This solution expands each ground truth answer into multiple

J. ACM, Vol. 37, No. 4, Article 111. Publication date: August 2018.
MelcotCR                                                                                                   111:3


semantically equivalent but syntactically distinct expressions, enabling the model to learn bias-
invariant essential knowledge.
  The main contributions of this work are summarized as follows:
      • We propose MelcotCR, a novel fine-tuning approach that trains LLMs with the ability to
        analyze multiple dimensions in code review by combining the maximum entropy principle
        with long COT techniques to cultivate diversified problem-solving capabilities.
      • We conduct empirical evaluations to demonstrate that a 14B low-parameter base model fine-
        tuned with MelcotCR can outperform state-of-the-art methods, with its ACR performance
        remarkably on par with that of Deepseek-R1 671B.
      • We perform experiments to investigate the impacts of fine-tuning methods and reasoning
        steps on MelcotCR’s ACR performance. The findings not only validate the proposed approach
        but also suggest future research directions.
   The rest of the paper is organized as follows. Section 2 introduces some related work. Section 3
describes the research methodology, followed by the evaluation process and results in Section 4.
Section 5 discusses the implications and validity risks. Section 6 concludes the paper with a summary
of contributions and future work.

2     Related work
In this section, we review the related work that forms the foundation of this work, including
automated code review, chain of thought, and maximum entropy.

2.1    Automated Code Review (ACR)
ACR is an essential aspect of improving software development efficiency, which aims to reduce the
manual effort and time required for code assessment. The main focus of an ACR system is to detect
potential code defects and suggest or generate relevant review comments. It typically comprises
two components: defect detection and review comment recommendation/generation.
   Defect detection aims to identify potential issues within code snippets under review. For instance,
CodeT5 [50] adopts a unified framework that supports both code understanding and generation
tasks, thus facilitating multi-task learning. CodeBert [10] is a bimodal pre-training model tailored
for programming languages and natural language, excelling in tasks such as natural language-based
code search and code documentation generation. DACE [44] employs CNN and LSTM techniques
to extract Diff features from the code, enabling the prediction of code quality in Diff patches.
LogiCode [62] leverages LLMs to detect logical anomalies, automatically generating Python code
to identify issues such as incorrect component quantities or missing elements.
   Review comment recommendation/generation produces review comments through retrieval or
generation methods. For example, LLaMA-Reviewer [31] uses low-parameter fine-tuning techniques
to enhance LLaMA, leading to impressive results in generating review comments. CodeReviewer [30]
achieves notable success in detecting code defects, generating review comments, and performing
code repair tasks by developing pre-training tasks specifically designed for code review in an
end-to-end manner. Notably, both studies utilize the same dataset [30] for training and validating
their models, assuming that the existence of review comments represents the ground truth, without
evaluating whether these comments are genuinely related to the code fixes. DCR [14] learns the
similarity between code commit ‘diffs’ and review comments to retrieve comments relevant to
specific code commits. CommentFinder [17] employs deep learning techniques to retrieve pertinent
code review comments, thus minimizing the time reviewers spend crafting these comments. The
BitsAI-CR [33] framework enhances ACR through a two-stage approach that combines a rule-based

                                              J. ACM, Vol. 37, No. 4, Article 111. Publication date: August 2018.
111:4                                                                                         Yu et al.




                              Fig. 1. A schematic overview of the MelcotCR approach



initial issue detection with a model called Reviewfilter for verification. This system, implemented
with a taxonomy of review rules, achieves a precision rate of 75.0% in review comment generation.

2.2     Chain of Thought (COT)
COT is commonly applied in LLMs to assist in better problem-solving or decision-making [52]. This
process helps an LLM generate more accurate, context-aware, and logical output, particularly in
complex tasks like code review, debugging, or code generation [27, 34, 59]. COT requires breaking
down a problem into smaller and manageable components and guiding the model to reason through
each part step by step. For example, when analyzing code to identify potential issues, the model will
first pinpoint the location of a potential problem, then describe the specific issue at that location,
and finally suggest a repair solution [59]. This sequential reasoning process helps improve the
overall accuracy of the model’s output and ensures that it understands the underlying issue, not
just generating a quick response. In addition, Yu Nong et al. [34] investigated the use of LLMs
and the COT prompting to address security vulnerabilities in software, which achieved impressive
results.
   Long COT extends this idea to more complex, multi-step tasks in which the model is asked to
engage in deeper reasoning, considering multiple stages or layers of a problem before reaching
a conclusion [5, 51, 55]. Edward Yeo et al. [58] explored the mechanics of long COT reasoning
in LLMs and found that long COT enhanced reasoning capabilities by enabling strategies such
as backtracking and error correction. The researchers systematically investigated the conditions
under which long COT emerged, highlighting the role of reinforcement learning (RL) in developing
these capabilities. Not only in the field of coding, but also in many other non-coding fields such
as translation, long COT has demonstrated extremely strong capabilities. Jiaan Wang et al. [49]
introduced DRT, a new method that used long COT reasoning to enhance neural machine translation
(MT). Ruohong Zhang et al. [61] introduced a COT reasoning approach to improve visual-language
models, which significantly enhanced performance in visual tasks by augmenting training data and
incorporating reinforcement learning. It has been found that a longer reasoning process enables
the model to handle tasks with more intricate dependencies, ultimately providing better solutions.

J. ACM, Vol. 37, No. 4, Article 111. Publication date: August 2018.
MelcotCR                                                                                                     111:5


2.3    Maximum Entropy Methods
Traditional RL typically aims to maximize cumulative reward [20]. However, pursuing only high
rewards can lead to overly “deterministic” policies, sacrificing exploration capability [1]. To address
this issue, researchers began to incorporate the idea of ME into RL [15, 16, 43]. Soft Actor-Critic
(SAC), proposed by Haarnoja et al. [16], is currently one of the most representative ME-based RL
algorithms. It is an off-policy deep RL algorithm that maximizes both the expected cumulative
reward and the entropy of the policy.
   The principle of Maximum Entropy (ME) originated in information theory [19]. Its core idea
advocates that, given known constraints, the probability distribution with the greatest entropy
(informational uncertainty) should be chosen to avoid inherent bias and local optima. In short, ME
fundamentally shifts the objective of policy optimization in RL to “maximize reward + maximize
entropy” [24]. This strategy shows impressive efficacy in RL, e.g., in text classification and machine
translation, ME classifiers avoid overfitting and effectively integrate diverse features by maximizing
the entropy of the conditional probability distribution [8, 18, 32, 35]. These early applications have
laid the groundwork for extending the ME principle to complex decision-making systems.
   A long COT prompt can also be viewed as a continuous and complex decision-making process.
Furthermore, during an ACR process—as previously discussed—there exists an inherent need to
simultaneously consider multidimensional information and perform comprehensive analysis. These
characteristics demonstrate substantial comparability with features already observed in current
ME-based solutions.

3     Methodology
Figure 1 depicts the MelcotCR approach, which comprises four phases: (1) collection and filtration
of code review data from the open source community, (2) construction of ME-regulated fine-tuning
datasets, (3) knowledge infusion through ME-regulated fine-tuning, and (4) activation of long COT
reasoning capabilities through custom-crafted prompts.

3.1    Data Collection and Preprocessing
This phase includes the main steps such as raw data acquisition and initial screening, historical
context reconstruction, semantic filtering, and long code ‘diff’ truncation.
   Step 1: Raw data acquisition and screening. We collected project development data from the
GitHub Archive1 , which captures timeline data of open-source projects including code submissions,
review requests, and merge operations. Our data retrieval focused on code review records spanning
from January 1, 2022 to November 1, 2024, with explicit filtering of review comments that triggered
actual code modifications later on. This filtering strategy aligns with the established research
consensus [22, 41, 53] that reviews leading to substantive fixes tend to contain valuable information
for code review. As a result, the initial dataset comprised 12,152,191 raw review comments. To
select active projects that can provide more abundant information for the dataset, we established
the selection criteria that require a minimum of 1000 pull requests and 50 review comments. This
selection process yielded 11,324 qualified projects containing 6,735,961 filtered review comments.
   Step 2: Historical context reconstruction. As illustrated in Figure 2, we reconstructed the historical
project states by traversing version-controlled files, as reviewers typically inspect code within its
necessary development context. A critical challenge arises from the inherent limitations of using
isolated ‘diff’ patch fragments referenced in review comments in current studies [31, 59]: a single
‘diff’ fragment typically contains only incomplete partial code logic. However, we observed that
1 https://www.gharchive.org/



                                                J. ACM, Vol. 37, No. 4, Article 111. Publication date: August 2018.
111:6                                                                                          Yu et al.


when feeding isolated ‘diff’ fragments to LLMs for code review, LLMs tend to disproportionately
focus review attention on the ‘diff’ fragment, identifying issues located in or related to that ‘diff’
segment. Yet, code issues do not always reside within ‘diff’ fragments.




                                      Fig. 2. The historical context reconstruction


   To address this validity concern, we cloned 11,324 open-source repositories and systematically
reconstructed comprehensive ‘diffs’ through git commit analysis. Our method consists of two
substeps. First, we traced backward through commit histories associated with each review, match-
ing the review’s referenced ‘diff’ fragments against historical commits to identify the precise
pre-commit state. Subsequently, we employed tree-sitter 2 to establish semantic context for each
‘diff’: for intra-function modifications, we extracted the encompassing function body as context; for
extra-function changes, we captured the syntactic unit containing the ‘diff’ (e.g., class definitions,
struct declarations, or module-level scopes). It should be noted that our parsing process specifically
targeted mainstream programming languages (Java, Python, C/C++, JavaScript/TypeScript, and
Go) [59] to ensure practical relevance, resulting in 211,868 valid data entries. Notable data attrition
occurred during this process, primarily due to two factors. The first was that historical commit
truncation may occur to manage repository size, preventing recovery of early development infor-
mation. The second was our systematic exclusion of documentation-related commits during code
parsing, despite their prevalence in open-source reviews.
   Step 3: Semantic filtering. Previous studies [4, 41, 56, 60] have noted the presence of low-value
reviews in raw peer review comments, which also occurred in our dataset. To improve data quality,
we needed to filter out these review comments. Using similar strategies applied in a previous
study [59], we performed semantic filtering on our dataset, resulting in 13,881 data entries. Table 1
lists typical types of low-value comments.
   Step 4: Long code truncation. To control resource consumption during training, we performed
truncation on excessively long code while strictly preserving complete ‘diff’ fragments. Using the
QWen2.5 tokenizer [37], we calculated tokens and enforced a 1000-token limit. When the code
exceeded 1000 tokens, we retained three lines of code preceding and three lines following the ‘diff’
fragment as its context, maintaining the integrity of the ‘diff’ itself. After this step, we obtained a
curated dataset of 12,881 code review instances. We refer to this dataset as the MelcotCR dataset.

2 https://github.com/tree-sitter/tree-sitter



J. ACM, Vol. 37, No. 4, Article 111. Publication date: August 2018.
MelcotCR                                                                                                           111:7


                                    Table 1. Typical low-value comments

                         Categories of
                                             Descriptions
                       Low-Value Reviews
                                             Developer acknowledgments of issue resolution,
                          Confirmation       predominantly containing status updates rather than
                                             technical insights
                                             Automated bot-generated messages referencing
                       Submission Notices    commit hashes, filtered through hash value patterns
                                             via regular expressions
                                             Notifications regarding PR merges or
                       Pull Request Events
                                             initiations devoid of technical problem descriptions
                                             Comments containing unreachable web links or
                        URL References       external resource pointers excluded due to
                                             crawling limitations
                                             @-based user notifications lacking technical problem
                           Mentions
                                             statements or contextual details
                                             Recommendations for test additions without
                        Test Suggestions     sufficient contextual justification, generally
                                             considered non-critical



3.2   Data Entry Augmentation and Construction
There are two major steps in this phase: (1) data entry augmentation, and (2) maximum entropy
dataset construction.
   Step 1: Data entry augmentation. Original comments retrieved from open-source projects mostly
describe issues directly, but do not articulate the full analytical reasoning process that leads to
the conclusion of those issues. This phenomenon is detrimental to model training as valuable
information is missing, a limitation confirmed by previous research [59]. So we also performed
logical augmentation on the original review comments. Specifically, we needed to enhance both
the expression and logic of the original review comments, which should include clear problem
locations, professional explanations and root cause analyses of the issues, an assessment of the
potential impacts of the issues, and the suggested solutions. The specific enhancement prompts are
shown in Figure 3.
   Step 2: ME-regulated fine-tuning dataset construction. A conventional approach to constructing a
fine-tuning dataset, as formulated in Equation 1, involves pairing each query 𝑞 with a canonical
answer 𝑎, thereby guiding the model to generate responses aligned with predefined standards
during subsequent fine-tuning processes.
                                              𝑎𝑖 ∼ 𝑃model (𝑎𝑖 | 𝑞𝑖 )                                                 (1)
However, this conventional fine-tuning method leads the models to mimicking both the desired
correct answers and their solution paths only from the training data. Although this limitation
is less problematic in conventional COT, it may exert negative effects in long COT scenarios
because the latter, as the term suggests, inherently involves multiple coherent reasoning steps
demanding logical self-consistency. To address this limitation, we emphasize infusing essential
knowledge about code review into the model while eliminating trivial elements such as expression
formats or styles. To ensure content validity while maximizing response diversity, we formulate
a ME-regulated fine-tuning data construction paradigm shown in Equation 2. For each query 𝑞,
we generate 𝑛 (set to 10 in our study) distinct answer instances {𝑎 1, 𝑎 2, ..., 𝑎𝑛 } to comprehensively
model the ME probability space.

                                                            i.i.d.
                                  {𝑎𝑖,1, 𝑎𝑖,2, . . . , 𝑎𝑖,𝑛 } ∼ 𝑃 model (𝑎𝑖,𝑛 | 𝑞𝑖 )                                 (2)

                                                      J. ACM, Vol. 37, No. 4, Article 111. Publication date: August 2018.
111:8                                                                                      Yu et al.




                       Fig. 3. Prompt used to generate ME-regulated fine-tuning datasets


The data entry generation process used the QWQ 32B model [46] as the base model. All inference
parameters strictly adhered to QWQ 32B’s recommended configurations [46] to ensure generation
quality and diversity. Following the answer generation phase, we proceeded to construct instruc-
tion tuning data specifically designed for ME-regulated fine-tuning. The instruction template, as
illustrated in Figure 3, was populated with code commit information and raw code review data
to formulate a complete instruction, which was later used to generate enhanced code review
comments.

3.3     Knowledge infusion through ME-regulated fine-tuning (MEFT)
This section provides MEFT details, including base model selection, loss function definition, and
hyperparameter configuration.
  Base model selection. Given the requirements of long COT reasoning, which necessitate extended
context lengths and robust foundational model capabilities, we selected Qwen2.5-14B [37] - one of
the most powerful open-source models under 20B parameters in the open-source community - as

J. ACM, Vol. 37, No. 4, Article 111. Publication date: August 2018.
MelcotCR                                                                                                        111:9


our base model. This choice was constrained by computational resource limitations that precluded
training larger models.
  MEFT loss function definition. During the fine-tuning phase, we employed full-parameter fine-
tuning to maximize the model’s knowledge capacity for comprehensive review expertise integration.
Conventional fine-tuning methods typically optimize the following objective:
                                                      𝑛
                                                     ∑︁
                                    L𝐿𝐿𝑀 (𝑥) =              𝑙𝑜𝑔𝑃 (𝑥𝑖 |𝑥 <𝑖 )                                      (3)
                                                     𝑖=1
while 𝑃 (𝑥𝑖 |𝑥 <𝑖 ) means the model predicts the i-th token conditioned on preceding tokens. While
this approach enhances the model’s ability to generate standard answers, it risks overfitting through
incidental learning of task-irrelevant priors present in reference answers, thereby constraining
adaptability to complex tasks. To address this limitation, we implemented MEFT using diversified
answer distributions:
                                          𝑛
                                         ∑︁
                             L𝑀𝐸𝐹𝑇 (𝑥) =      𝑙𝑜𝑔𝑃 ({𝑥𝑖,1, 𝑥𝑖,2, . . . , 𝑥𝑖,𝑛 }|𝑥 <𝑖 )             (4)
                                           𝑖=1
In general, this method enables the model to learn multiple solution pathways per problem, en-
hancing its generalization capabilities.
  Hyperparameter configuration. For computational efficiency, we applied Flash Attention [6, 7] in
the attention layers to reduce memory overhead from extended token sequences. Further memory
optimization was achieved through DeepSpeed Zero3 [39], which offloads the optimizer’s states
and partial model parameters to system memory. The complete training process was conducted on
8×NVIDIA H800 80GB GPUs. Detailed hyperparameter configurations are provided in Table 2.

                                  Table 2. Training hyperparameters

                                  epochs   batch      lr      cutoff   warmup
                                    2       64       1e-7      5000      500




3.4   Activating long COT reasoning in ACR
Existing research suggests that long COT improves the performance of LLMs by enabling them to
engage in long reasoning processes and explore a broader range of considerations [5, 51, 55]. In the
context of ACR, long COT mirrors a typical cognitive workflow of a human reviewer. First, they
need to understand the implemented functionality and primary execution paths of the code under
review. Then, they systematically examine the modifications introduced in the new submission
to assess whether and how the changes impact the intended functionality or outcomes. After
that, they conduct thorough analyses of potential code quality issues such as examining error (or
exception) handling and edge case coverage, checking resource management (memory, connections,
etc.), evaluating the correctness of API/dependency usage, and inspecting common vulnerability
patterns [22]. So we constructed a long COT code review prompt to emulate this manual process,
as illustrated in Figure 4.

4 Evaluation
To empirically validate the proposed MelcotCR approach, we formulate the following research
questions:

                                                   J. ACM, Vol. 37, No. 4, Article 111. Publication date: August 2018.
111:10                                                                                 Yu et al.




                           Fig. 4. Prompt used to activate long COT reasoning in ACR



    • RQ1: How effective is an LLM fine-tuned with MelcotCR in performing ACR tasks compared
      to existing methods?

J. ACM, Vol. 37, No. 4, Article 111. Publication date: August 2018.
MelcotCR                                                                                                        111:11


        – RQ1.1: How accurately does the fine-tuned model localize code issues?
        – RQ1.2: How accurately do the review comments generated by the fine-tuned model describe
          the identified code issues?
      • RQ2: What factors critically impact MelcotCR’s effectiveness in fine-tuning LLMs for ACR
        tasks?
   In particular, RQ1 aims to validate that fine-tuning an LLM with a unique reasoning ability to
analyze multiple dimensions of code review by MelcotCR can lead to improved ACR performance in
terms of its accuracy in both localizing code issues and describing the identified issues. RQ2 aims
to provide a deep understanding of the factors in MelcotCR that play critical roles in improving
ACR performance.
   In this section, we first describe the experimental settings and then analyze the results to answer
the research questions.

4.1    Experimental settings
Experimental settings include datasets, benchmark models, and evaluation metrics.

4.1.1 Datasets. The evaluation dataset is divided into two parts to evaluate the model performance
in in-distribution and out-of-distribution review tasks, respectively. The in-distribution dataset
consists of 1,000 randomly sampled test items from our curated MelcotCR dataset (the remaining
data allocated to model training), assessing performance under the same distribution as the training
data. The out-of-distribution dataset utilizes the CodeReviewer dataset [30]. As the collection time
periods of CodeReviewer and MelcotCR datasets do not overlap, it is a reasonable benchmark dataset
to evaluate the out-of-distribution performance of MelcotCR. As the CodeReviewer dataset lacks
issue location annotations, it is only included in assessing the accuracy of review comments.

4.1.2 Benchmark models/approaches. Benchmark models/approaches are drawn from two primary
sources. One category comprises models fine-tuned specifically for ACR tasks. To our knowledge,
the only publicly known studies are Carllm [59], LLaMA-Reviewer [31], BitsAI-CR [45], and
CodeReviewer [30]. However, we exclude CodeReviewer [30] and LLaMA-Reviewer [31] from
our comparative analysis due to two fundamental limitations. First, their training protocol solely
employs raw review comments without incorporating code location annotation capabilities. Second,
Yu et al.’s work [59] revealed their substantial performance gaps compared to current state-of-
the-art benchmarks. Meanwhile, although BitsAI-CR [45] is also designed to improve LLMs’ ACR
performance, it primarily concentrates on the data flywheel in enterprise environments. In addition,
it utilizes internal corporate data and rules, making it impossible for us to conduct comparisons
without a publicly available replication package.
   The other category involves general models that are not fine-tuned for ACR tasks. Due to access
restrictions, we cannot compare with advanced models like the GPT family. Instead, we selected
accessible alternatives with comparable capability: Qwen 2.5 72B, QWQ 32B, and DeepSeek R1
671B. The benchmark models/methods are listed in Table 3.

                                    Table 3. Models/Approaches in RQs

                      Models/Approaches          Type         Parameters   Research Questions
                          MelcotCR         Fine-tuned model      14B           RQ1, RQ2
                           Carllm          Fine-tuned model      14B              RQ1
                        Qwen 2.5 72B        General model        72B              RQ1
                          QWQ 32B           General model        32B           RQ1, RQ2
                      DeepSeek R1 (0120)    General model        671B             RQ1



                                                    J. ACM, Vol. 37, No. 4, Article 111. Publication date: August 2018.
111:12                                                                                            Yu et al.


4.1.3 Objective Metrics. We use the following objective metrics to evaluate the performance of
various ACR approaches.
   Intersection over Union (IoU): To evaluate code issue localization performance, we employ the
Intersection over Union (IoU) metric [38, 40], which is calculated as follows:
                                                         𝑙𝑎𝑏𝑒𝑙 ∩ predict
                                                𝐼𝑜𝑈 =
                                                         𝑙𝑎𝑏𝑒𝑙 ∪ predict
where label denotes the set of code lines containing issues in the ground truth, and predict represents
the set of code lines identified as problematic in the prediction. A higher IoU value signifies more
precise issue localization, with the metric reaching its maximum value of 1 when the predicted
and the ground-truth code segments completely overlap. This measurement effectively quantifies
the spatial alignment between actual and detected code issues, providing an objective criterion for
evaluating issue localization accuracy.
  Hit Rate: This evaluation metric is calculated as follows:
                                                     ℎ𝑖𝑡 𝑐𝑜𝑢𝑛𝑡
                                                𝐻𝑖𝑡 𝑅𝑎𝑡𝑒 =
                                                       𝑡𝑜𝑡𝑎𝑙
where hit count denotes the number of instances where the model-generated review comments
align with the issues identified in the ground truth, and total represents the full test set size of 1,000
entries.
4.1.4 Human Evaluation Metrics. The human evaluation process involves a comprehensive exami-
nation of three elements for each entry: the original code submission, historical review comments,
and LLM-generated feedback. This tripartite analysis aims to determine the practical value of the
generated reviews. The assessment framework comprises two distinct tasks:
     • Accurate Identification of Historical Reviews: Requires the LLM-generated comments to de-
       scribe identical issues to those specified in the ground truth.
     • Provision of Valuable Review Feedback: Mandates that the identified issues must objectively
       exist in the code samples without containing hallucinatory content.
   Human evaluation was conducted by two senior students specializing in software engineering.
From the complete test set, 540 entries were randomly sampled for manual assessment, ensuring
a 95% confidence level with less than 3% margin of error. Each evaluator analyzed 300 entries,
including 60 overlapping samples for consistency verification. The inter-rater reliability analysis
yielded a Cohen’s kappa [23] score of 0.8426, indicating substantial agreement. We also examined the
consistency between LLM-as-judge [12, 26, 64] and human evaluation. The calculated kappa value
was 0.5281, also indicating substantial agreement between human evaluation and LLM-as-judge
evaluation.
   To facilitate statistical measurement, analysis, and comparison, we define the following two
metrics:
   Human Hit: involves manually comparing the review comments generated by the model with
the standard answers to determine whether the code issues identified by the model align with the
ground-truth answers. The final result is calculated as the proportion of consistent cases out of the
total number of evaluations.
                                                   ℎ𝑢𝑚𝑎𝑛 ℎ𝑖𝑡 𝑐𝑜𝑢𝑛𝑡
                                    𝐻𝑢𝑚𝑎𝑛 𝐻𝑖𝑡 =
                                                         𝑡𝑜𝑡𝑎𝑙
   Human Valuable: involves manually reviewing the model-generated comments alongside the
original code to assess whether the model has identified valuable code issues. Here, “valuable" is
defined as the model pointing out genuine code problems, regardless of whether they match the

J. ACM, Vol. 37, No. 4, Article 111. Publication date: August 2018.
MelcotCR                                                                                                         111:13


ground-truth answers. The final result is calculated as the proportion of valuable review comments
out of the total number of evaluations.
                                                 ℎ𝑢𝑚𝑎𝑛 𝑣𝑎𝑙𝑢𝑎𝑏𝑙𝑒 𝑐𝑜𝑢𝑛𝑡
                           𝐻𝑢𝑚𝑎𝑛 𝑉 𝑎𝑙𝑢𝑎𝑏𝑙𝑒 =
                                                          𝑡𝑜𝑡𝑎𝑙




                        Fig. 5. The process for comparative evaluation of MelcotCR

4.1.5 The experimental evaluation process. Figure 5 depicts our comparative framework consisting
of two primary components. For the first category concerning prior code review studies, we select
the state-of-the-art baseline Carllm [59] as our benchmark. To ensure methodological parity, we
replicate the experimental setup by maintaining identical model parameter scales, equivalent
training data scope, and consistent implementation of full fine-tuning during model reproduction.
The second comparison focuses on contemporary dominant LLMs utilizing prompt engineering for
review generation. We choose QWQ-32B [46], Deepseek-R1 671B [13], and Qwen2.5 72B [37] as
baseline references. During the evaluation process, we conduct iterative prompt optimisation to
achieve optimal generation quality, with explicit instructions requiring models to prioritize the
identification of critical issues to prevent low-quality review outputs.
                                      Table 4. Experimental settings for RQs

                                                             Evaluation
                  RQ       Datasets           Methods                             Metrics
                                                              methods
                                             Carllm 14B
                                            MelcotCR 14B
                  1.1      MelcotCR         Qwen2.5 72B      automated              IoU
                                             QWQ 32B
                                          Deepseek-R1 671B
                                             Carllm 14B
                                            MelcotCR 14B
                         MelcotCR and                        Human and    Hit Rate, Human Hit and
                  1.2                       Qwen2.5 72B
                         CodeReviewer                        automated        Human Valuable
                                             QWQ 32B
                                          Deepseek-R1 671B
                   2       MelcotCR         MelcotCR 14B     automated        IoU and HitRate


  The experiment for RQ1.1 Localizing code issues plays a crucial role in ACR as it helps developers
pinpoint the exact locations of code issues, and improves both reviewing and fixing efficiencies. As

                                                     J. ACM, Vol. 37, No. 4, Article 111. Publication date: August 2018.
111:14                                                                                       Yu et al.


shown in Table 4, the evaluation of code issue localization employs IoU for automated assessment.
This metric provides a detailed evaluation of the distance between the positions of code issues
identified by the model and the ground truth.
   The experiment for RQ1.2 Code review comments exhibit diverse expression methods, which
leads to significant bias when using similarity metrics such as BLEU [36] to evaluate the performance
of review comments, as many studies have reported [21, 47]. As shown in Table 4, to avoid evaluation
bias caused by expression differences, we employ a combination of LLM-as-Judge [12, 26, 64],
commonly used for assessing complex semantic tasks, and manual evaluation to measure the
accuracy of generated review comments. For LLM-as-Judge, we assess whether the generated
review comments identify the same issues as the reference answers, using the prompt shown in
Figure 6. When constructing the evaluation prompt, we compare the generated comments with the
reference answers to determine the correctness of the review. By providing the correct answers, we
guide the LLM to focus on the content of review comments rather than their expression, thereby
significantly mitigating subjective bias in LLM evaluations.




                                             Fig. 6. LLM-as-Judge prompt

   The evaluation dataset has two parts: 1,000 samples randomly selected from the MelcotCR dataset
to evaluate performance on in-distribution data and 1,000 entries randomly selected from the
CodeReviewer dataset [30]. During data sampling, we select code languages consistent with our
study to avoid potential bias from less common languages. As the CodeReviewer dataset cannot
provide ground truth for code issue locations, we only conduct manual and automated evaluations
of the accuracy of generated review comments when using this dataset. The automated evaluation
employs the QWQ 32B model as the base model, which demonstrates performance comparable to
Deepseek-R1 while being more computationally efficient.
   The experiment for RQ2 The process of analyzing which factors in MelcotCR significantly impact
its performance in fine-tuning LLMs for ACR tasks comprises two main parts. The first part examines
the effect of ME. The second part explores the effect of the thought process. As shown in Table 4,
we conduct ablation experiments on different factors through automated evaluation, focusing on
two aspects: positional localization and accuracy of code review. When analyzing the impact of ME
on ACR performance, we compare ME-regulated fine-tuning against conventional fine-tuning with
the options of regular and long COT arrangements. To assess the influence of different thinking
steps on the final ACR performance, we investigate the impact of each individual step on the overall
task by removing specific step prompts.

J. ACM, Vol. 37, No. 4, Article 111. Publication date: August 2018.
MelcotCR                                                                                                        111:15


4.2   Evaluation results
Following the evaluation settings and process elaborated in the previous section, this section
analyzes the evaluation results.

           Table 5. Performance of each method on the MelcotCR and CodeReviewer datasets

                                           MelcotCR dataset               CodeReviewer dataset
                                          Hit     Human     Human       Hit   Human      Human
                                  IoU
                                          Rate      Hit     Valuable   Rate     Hit      Valuable
                    Carllm 14B    24.12   21.9     25.83     76.11     35.02   36.40      87.78
                     MelcotCR
                                  27.16   25.4    29.72      81.67     36.56    39.17     92.00
                  (Qwen2.5 14B)
                   Qwen2.5 72B    10.26   18.8    15.56      73.05     27.62    29.17     75.28
                    QWQ 32B       11.46   22.7    20.28      78.33     25.94    25.28     71.39
                   Deepseek-R1
                                  12.17   25.2    26.11      83.61     38.38   40.56      86.11
                   671B (0120)




4.2.1 RQ1.1: Issue localization accuracy. Table 5 presents the IoU performance of different methods
in positional localization on the MelcotCR and CodeReviewer datasets. The results confirm that the
low-parameter Qwen2.5 14B base model, when fine-tuned with MelcotCR, significantly surpasses
Carllm, the state-of-the-art model fine-tuned for ACR tasks so far, and all the other models, especially
Qwen2.5 72B, the same series but with significantly more parameters and Deepseek-R1 671B,
enabling developers to precisely identify problematic code segments. LLMs not specifically trained
for ACR generally exhibit suboptimal performance. Manual investigation reveals distinct failure
patterns between QWQ 32B and Deepseek-R1: QWQ 32B’s lower score primarily stems from its
inability to detect valid code issues, whereas Deepseek-R1 tends to over-expand localization scope,
unnecessarily increasing code inspection workload for reviewers and consequently wasting their
cognitive efforts.
4.2.2 RQ1.2: Issue description accuracy. Table 5 presents the results of both automated and human
evaluations. For automated evaluation in terms of Hit Rate, MelcotCR outperforms all other methods,
including Deepseek-R1 whose parameter size is an order of magnitude larger on the MelcotCR
dataset. This advantage stems from the comprehensive knowledge infusion through MEFT and the
analytical steps designed to emulate the human review process. As illustrated by a comparative
example in Figure 7, MelcotCR exhibits stronger analytical depth and logical reasoning capabilities
compared to Carllm using a conventional COT approach.
   For human evaluation, MelcotCR outperforms all other methods, including Deepseek-R1, in
accurately identifying code issues (in terms of Human Hit), which confirms its effectiveness. In
terms of maintaining the factual grounding of review comments to ensure that identified issues
truly exist in code snippets without hallucination (Human Valuable), MelcotCR surpasses all other
methods including the state-of-the-art fine-tuned Carllm, confirming that combining ME-regulated
fine-tuning with long COT reasoning leads to substantial improvement in code review capability.
However, due to the significant parameter scale disparity between the base model and Deepseek-R1,
MelcotCR slightly underperforms Deepseek-R1.
   When comparing LLM-as-judge with human evaluation results, QwQ 32B exhibits significant
evaluation bias when assessing its own responses, displaying a higher probability of considering
its own answers correct. Our human and LLM-based evaluations serve as mutual cross-validation
to more accurately reflect the performance of different methods in generating reviews. Comparing
different approaches reveals that the long COT model demonstrates superior performance in the
review task. This further underscores the necessity of applying long COT techniques to ACR.

                                                    J. ACM, Vol. 37, No. 4, Article 111. Publication date: August 2018.
111:16                                                                                             Yu et al.




               Fig. 7. The example comments generated by Carllm, MelcotCR, and Deepseek-R1


   On the CodeReviewer dataset, MelcotCR performs comparably to Deepseek R1 on out-of-distribution
data while significantly outperforming other methods. However, MelcotCR surpasses Deepseek R1
in generating useful review comments (Human Valuable).
4.2.3 RQ2: impacting factors. We examine factors influencing the performance of MelcotCR from
two aspects of fine-tuning: fine-tuning methods and fine-tuning process steps.

           Table 6. Effects of different fine-tuning methods and inferencing methods in MelcotCR

                                 Fine-tuning Method   Inferencing Method    IoU    Hit Rate
                                                          Regular COT      24.12     20.0
                                    Conventional
                                                           Long COT        26.88     22.9
                                                          Regular COT      26.60     20.3
                                       MEFT
                                                           Long COT        27.16     24.3


  The influence of fine-tuning methods. As shown in Table 6, MEFT exhibits distinct effects in lo-
calizing code issues and generating review comments. For the task of localizing code issues, MEFT
with regular COT can achieve the same performance as the conventional fine-tuning that adopts
long COT. When MEFT adopts long COT, its performance is elevated significantly. Even with
the conventional fine-tuning method, adopting long COT makes a significant difference. For the

J. ACM, Vol. 37, No. 4, Article 111. Publication date: August 2018.
MelcotCR                                                                                                        111:17


task of generating precise review comments, MEFT does not yield significant improvement over
conventional fine-tuning when using regular COT. In contrast, when employing long COT, MEFT
demonstrates a notable advantage. As long COT incorporates additional outputs such as code
analysis and change descriptions, it suggests that MEFT holds greater potential in enabling models
to acquire deeper knowledge.
   The influence of reasoning steps. As shown in Table 7, the experimental results indicate that ‘diff
analyze’ has the greatest overall impact on correctly identifying code issue locations and generating
accurate review comments, which aligns with the intuition that most code issues are triggered by
code modifications [3, 42]. ‘Summary’ has the least influence, probably because summarization
tasks are relatively simple, and high-level functional descriptions lack the granularity required
to establish concrete connections with specific code defects, thus failing to provide sufficient
contextual clues to improve accuracy in review tasks. ‘Key code flows’ significantly affect the
correct generation of review comments, suggesting that effective code review generation requires
not only localized inspection but also a comprehensive understanding of how components interact
within the broader context.

                        Table 7. Effects of different reasoning steps in MelcotCR

                                     Steps        IoU     Ratio   Hit Rate    Ratio
                                      Full       27.16      -       24.3        -
                                 - Summary       26.94   -0.81%     23.9     -1.64%
                              - Key code flows   26.67   -1.80%     22.3     -8.23%
                                - Diff anlyze    25.38   -6.55%     22.7     -6.58%
                                - Issue check    26.32   -3.09%     23.1     -4.93%




5     Discussion
In this section, we discuss this work’s implications for researchers and practitioners as well as its
validity risks.

5.1    Methodological significance of MelcotCR
This study establishes three pivotal research directions for LLM-based ACR.
   First, MEFT alleviates an issue in traditional supervised learning, that is, various biases are
inadvertently introduced while acquiring knowledge. MEFT provides a new perspective: a shift
from solely pursuing the best answer fitting to learning unbiased knowledge behind the answers.
   Second, the long COT architecture establishes an extensible analytical framework for code
review tasks. Unlike Yu et al.’s constrained three-phase decomposition of “localization-description-
resolution" [59], MelcotCR enables dynamic integration of new analytical dimensions including
code summarization, core logic analysis, diff change analysis, and potential issue identification. This
innovation not only expands the cognitive depth of LLMs in code review scenarios but also reveals
a new research paradigm: enhancing code review performance through systematic integration of
diverse perspectives to both understand and analyze source code.
   Finally, this work empirically demonstrates that algorithmic innovations can enable smaller-
scale models, e.g., 14B parameters, to match or surpass the performance of significantly larger
counterparts, e.g., 671B-parameter Deepseek-R1. This discovery illuminates a promising direction
for further research – rather than continuously scaling up models, focusing on cognitive architecture
enhancements could unlock the latent potential of existing models, thereby providing theoretical
foundations for developing lightweight ACR systems.

                                                    J. ACM, Vol. 37, No. 4, Article 111. Publication date: August 2018.
111:18                                                                                       Yu et al.


5.2      Implications for practiontioners
The superior performance of MelcotCR for ACR tasks demonstrates that incorporating multiple
dimensions of information to facilitate the identification of issues in code by LLMs can yield
positive gains. Through ME-regulated fine-tuning, we stimulate the model’s long COT capability
to effectively integrate multiple dimensions of information. This not only paves the way for the
future evolution of ACR models but also leaves ample exploration space, for example, investigating
whether introducing more dimensions of information or expanding the number of paraphrased
review comments (this study used 10 semantically equivalent variants) could further enhance
the model’s deep reasoning capacity. We invite interested researchers to reproduce our work and
explore this direction by making our replication package available at https://anonymous.4open.
science/r/MelcotCR.
   It is also worth noting that the reasoning process of MelcotCR is inspired by the human review
process and hence the MelcotCR approach is inherently friendly to human-AI collaboration in such
a way that the tool’s COT reasoning process provides auxiliary support for human reviewers to
rapidly comprehend code functionality, core logic, critical modifications, and so on. This structured
analytical approach assists reviewers in efficiently parsing code implementations, thereby creating
additional efficiency gains in the code review workflow.

5.3      Threats to Validity
We are conscious that the following factors may introduce risks to the validity of the study’s
findings.
   Limited LLMs. Due to computational resource constraints, we experimented only with represen-
tative LLMs under restricted parameter configurations (less than 20B), specifically Qwen2.5-14B.
Given the rapid evolution of LLM research, the broader community continues to explore the perfor-
mance of diverse LLMs. Consequently, newer or larger models may outperform those evaluated in
this work. In fact, existing studies have confirmed that long COT yields positive effects in certain
scenarios only when the base model possesses sufficient parameters [28]. However, the timing and
environmental factors of model training limited our initial exploration to Qwen2.5-14B. Future
work could investigate newer iterations such as Qwen3. We are open to experimenting with newer
models.
   Noisy Data. Noise in the dataset may arise from multiple sources. First, while low-quality re-
view comments in open-source communities were largely filtered out through semantic analysis,
residual low-value data could still persist, potentially affecting model training. To mitigate this,
we implemented manual screening and rule-based filtering to eliminate invalid reviews. Empirical
results demonstrate that our approach maintains robust performance, suggesting minimal impact
from residual noise.
   LLM Evaluation Bias. Prior studies have identified inherent biases in LLM-based evaluation,
particularly in scoring tasks where models tend to favor content stylistically similar to their own
outputs [25]. In this work, we adopt a contrastive approach to directly compare reference answers
with model-generated outputs. By establishing explicit evaluation rules and objectives, our method
significantly reduces model-specific biases.
   Human Evaluation Bias. Despite adopting standardized protocols and consistency checks, human
evaluation can still introduce errors. To address this, we recruited evaluators with a software
engineering background to ensure domain expertise in assessing the alignment between source
code and review comments. We also conducted Cohen’s kappa coefficient analysis to measure
inter-rater reliability and permitted moderated discussions among evaluators to resolve contentious
cases, further minimizing this risk.

J. ACM, Vol. 37, No. 4, Article 111. Publication date: August 2018.
MelcotCR                                                                                                             111:19


   Prompt Limitations. While iterative experimentation was carried out to optimize prompt design,
there may exist untested prompts capable of delivering superior performance. We encourage
researchers to experiment with alternative prompts to explore further improvements.
   Reasoning Steps. It is generally believed that increasing COT length has a positive correlation
with improved model performance. In this work, we enhanced COT reasoning length and achieved
better performance through MEFT and explicitly specifying the model’s reasoning path. It is worth
validating whether increasing the reasoning length further can lead to even better performance.
   10 Variations for Maximum Entropy. Due to computational constraints, we provide only 10 vari-
ants for review comments, attempting to capture knowledge embedded in different pathways
leading to the final answer – correct review comments. However, the value 10 may not be necessar-
ily optimal and it is worth exploring different values. We conjecture that increasing the number
of variants would likely yield greater benefits, although an upper limit should exist to balance
between the cost of resources and the performance gain. This awaits verification in subsequent
research.

6   Conclusions
In this work, we propose MelcotCR, an approach that combines maximum-entropy-regulated fine-
tuning and long chain-of-thought reasoning to optimize LLMs for ACR tasks by emulating the
cognitive process of human code reviewers. Experimental results demonstrate that this method
outperforms previous state-of-the-art approaches in both position localization and review comment
generation in ACR tasks. With 14B parameters, it attains performance on par with Deepseek-R1
671B, one of the current strongest open-source long-chain reasoning models. Our future work
includes leveraging online reinforcement learning to further enhance the review capabilities of
LLMs, and developing context exploration methods for ACR systems to advance intelligent code
review capabilities.

References
 [1] Kai Arulkumaran, Marc Peter Deisenroth, Miles Brundage, and Anil Anthony Bharath. 2017. Deep reinforcement
     learning: A brief survey. IEEE Signal Processing Magazine 34, 6 (2017), 26–38.
 [2] Amiangshu Bosu and Jeffrey C Carver. 2013. Impact of peer code review on peer impression formation: A survey. In
     2013 ACM/IEEE International Symposium on Empirical Software Engineering and Measurement. IEEE, 133–142.
 [3] Amiangshu Bosu, Jeffrey C Carver, Munawar Hafiz, Patrick Hilley, and Derek Janni. 2014. Identifying the characteristics
     of vulnerable code changes: An empirical study. In Proceedings of the 22nd ACM SIGSOFT international symposium on
     foundations of software engineering. 257–268.
 [4] Junkai Chen, Zhenhao Li, Qiheng Mao, Xing Hu, Kui Liu, and Xin Xia. 2025. Understanding Practitioners’ Expectations
     on Clear Code Review Comments. Proceedings of the ACM on Software Engineering 2, ISSTA (2025), 1257–1279.
 [5] Qiguang Chen, Libo Qin, Jinhao Liu, Dengyun Peng, Jiannan Guan, Peng Wang, Mengkang Hu, Yuhang Zhou, Te Gao,
     and Wanxiang Che. 2025. Towards reasoning era: A survey of long chain-of-thought for reasoning large language
     models. arXiv preprint arXiv:2503.09567 (2025).
 [6] Tri Dao. 2024. FlashAttention-2: Faster Attention with Better Parallelism and Work Partitioning. In International
     Conference on Learning Representations (ICLR).
 [7] Tri Dao, Daniel Y. Fu, Stefano Ermon, Atri Rudra, and Christopher Ré. 2022. FlashAttention: Fast and Memory-Efficient
     Exact Attention with IO-Awareness. In Advances in Neural Information Processing Systems (NeurIPS).
 [8] Alaa M El-Halees. 2015. Arabic text classification using maximum entropy. IUG Journal of Natural Studies 15, 1 (2015).
 [9] Guhao Feng, Bohang Zhang, Yuntian Gu, Haotian Ye, Di He, and Liwei Wang. 2023. Towards revealing the mystery
     behind chain of thought: a theoretical perspective. Advances in Neural Information Processing Systems 36 (2023),
     70757–70798.
[10] Zhangyin Feng, Daya Guo, Duyu Tang, Nan Duan, Xiaocheng Feng, Ming Gong, Linjun Shou, Bing Qin, Ting Liu,
     Daxin Jiang, et al. 2020. Codebert: A pre-trained model for programming and natural languages. arXiv preprint
     arXiv:2002.08155 (2020).


                                                         J. ACM, Vol. 37, No. 4, Article 111. Publication date: August 2018.
111:20                                                                                                              Yu et al.


[11] Georgios Gousios, Martin Pinzger, and Arie van Deursen. 2014. An exploratory study of the pull-based software
     development model. In Proceedings of the 36th international conference on software engineering. 345–355.
[12] Jiawei Gu, Xuhui Jiang, Zhichao Shi, Hexiang Tan, Xuehao Zhai, Chengjin Xu, Wei Li, Yinghan Shen, Shengjie Ma,
     Honghao Liu, et al. 2024. A survey on llm-as-a-judge. arXiv preprint arXiv:2411.15594 (2024).
[13] Daya Guo, Dejian Yang, Haowei Zhang, Junxiao Song, Ruoyu Zhang, Runxin Xu, Qihao Zhu, Shirong Ma, Peiyi Wang,
     Xiao Bi, et al. 2025. Deepseek-r1: Incentivizing reasoning capability in llms via reinforcement learning. arXiv preprint
     arXiv:2501.12948 (2025).
[14] Anshul Gupta and Neel Sundaresan. 2018. Intelligent code reviews using deep learning. In Proceedings of the 24th ACM
     SIGKDD International Conference on Knowledge Discovery and Data Mining (KDD’18) Deep Learning Day.
[15] Tuomas Haarnoja, Haoran Tang, Pieter Abbeel, and Sergey Levine. 2017. Reinforcement learning with deep energy-
     based policies. In International conference on machine learning. PMLR, 1352–1361.
[16] Tuomas Haarnoja, Aurick Zhou, Pieter Abbeel, and Sergey Levine. 2018. Soft actor-critic: Off-policy maximum entropy
     deep reinforcement learning with a stochastic actor. In International conference on machine learning. Pmlr, 1861–1870.
[17] Yang Hong, Chakkrit Tantithamthavorn, Patanamon Thongtanunam, and Aldeida Aleti. 2022. Commentfinder: a
     simpler, faster, more accurate code review comments recommendation. In Proceedings of the 30th ACM joint European
     software engineering conference and symposium on the foundations of software engineering. 507–519.
[18] Abraham Ittycheriah and Salim Roukos. 2005. A maximum entropy word aligner for arabic-english machine translation.
     In Proceedings of Human Language Technology Conference and Conference on Empirical Methods in Natural Language
     Processing. 89–96.
[19] Edwin T Jaynes. 1957. Information theory and statistical mechanics. Physical review 106, 4 (1957), 620.
[20] Leslie Pack Kaelbling, Michael L Littman, and Andrew W Moore. 1996. Reinforcement learning: A survey. Journal of
     artificial intelligence research 4 (1996), 237–285.
[21] Tom Kocmi, Vilém Zouhar, Christian Federmann, and Matt Post. 2024. Navigating the metrics maze: Reconciling score
     magnitudes and accuracies. arXiv preprint arXiv:2401.06760 (2024).
[22] Oleksii Kononenko, Olga Baysal, and Michael W Godfrey. 2016. Code review quality: How developers see it. In
     Proceedings of the 38th international conference on software engineering. 1028–1038.
[23] Tarald O Kvålseth. 1989. Note on Cohen’s kappa. Psychological reports 65, 1 (1989), 223–226.
[24] Sergey Levine. 2018. Reinforcement learning and control as probabilistic inference: Tutorial and review. arXiv preprint
     arXiv:1805.00909 (2018).
[25] Dawei Li, Renliang Sun, Yue Huang, Ming Zhong, Bohan Jiang, Jiawei Han, Xiangliang Zhang, Wei Wang, and Huan
     Liu. 2025. Preference Leakage: A Contamination Problem in LLM-as-a-judge. (2025). arXiv:2502.01534 [cs.LG]
     https://arxiv.org/abs/2502.01534
[26] Haitao Li, Qian Dong, Junjie Chen, Huixue Su, Yujia Zhou, Qingyao Ai, Ziyi Ye, and Yiqun Liu. 2024. Llms-as-judges: a
     comprehensive survey on llm-based evaluation methods. arXiv preprint arXiv:2412.05579 (2024).
[27] Jia Li, Ge Li, Yongmin Li, and Zhi Jin. 2025. Structured Chain-of-Thought Prompting for Code Generation. ACM Trans.
     Softw. Eng. Methodol. 34, 2, Article 37 (Jan. 2025), 23 pages. doi:10.1145/3690635
[28] Yuetai Li, Xiang Yue, Zhangchen Xu, Fengqing Jiang, Luyao Niu, Bill Yuchen Lin, Bhaskar Ramasubramanian, and
     Radha Poovendran. 2025. Small models struggle to learn from strong reasoners. arXiv preprint arXiv:2502.12143 (2025).
[29] Zhiyu Li, Shuai Lu, Daya Guo, Nan Duan, Shailesh Jannu, Grant Jenks, Deep Majumder, Jared Green, Alexey Svy-
     atkovskiy, Shengyu Fu, et al. 2022. Automating code review activities by large-scale pre-training. In Proceedings of the
     30th ACM Joint European Software Engineering Conference and Symposium on the Foundations of Software Engineering.
     1035–1047.
[30] Zhiyu Li, Shuai Lu, Daya Guo, Nan Duan, Shailesh Jannu, Grant Jenks, Deep Majumder, Jared Green, Alexey Svy-
     atkovskiy, Shengyu Fu, et al. 2022. Automating code review activities by large-scale pre-training. In Proceedings of the
     30th ACM Joint European Software Engineering Conference and Symposium on the Foundations of Software Engineering.
     1035–1047.
[31] Junyi Lu, Lei Yu, Xiaojia Li, Li Yang, and Chun Zuo. 2023. LLaMA-Reviewer: Advancing code review automation with
     large language models through parameter-efficient fine-tuning. In 2023 IEEE 34th International Symposium on Software
     Reliability Engineering (ISSRE). IEEE, 647–658.
[32] Kamal Nigam, John Lafferty, and Andrew McCallum. 1999. Using maximum entropy for text classification. In IJCAI-99
     workshop on machine learning for information filtering, Vol. 1. Stockholom, Sweden, 61–67.
[33] Kaiwen Ning, Jiachi Chen, Jingwen Zhang, Wei Li, Zexu Wang, Yuming Feng, Weizhe Zhang, and Zibin Zheng.
     2024. Defining and Detecting the Defects of the Large Language Model-based Autonomous Agents. arXiv preprint
     arXiv:2412.18371 (2024).
[34] Yu Nong, Mohammed Aldeen, Long Cheng, Hongxin Hu, Feng Chen, and Haipeng Cai. 2024. Chain-of-thought
     prompting of large language models for discovering and fixing software vulnerabilities. arXiv preprint arXiv:2402.17230
     (2024).


J. ACM, Vol. 37, No. 4, Article 111. Publication date: August 2018.
MelcotCR                                                                                                                111:21


[35] Franz Josef Och and Hermann Ney. 2002. Discriminative training and maximum entropy models for statistical machine
     translation. In Proceedings of the 40th Annual meeting of the Association for Computational Linguistics. 295–302.
[36] Kishore Papineni, Salim Roukos, Todd Ward, and Wei-Jing Zhu. 2002. Bleu: a method for automatic evaluation of
     machine translation. In Proceedings of the 40th annual meeting of the Association for Computational Linguistics. 311–318.
[37] Qwen, :, An Yang, Baosong Yang, Beichen Zhang, Binyuan Hui, Bo Zheng, Bowen Yu, Chengyuan Li, Dayiheng Liu, Fei
     Huang, Haoran Wei, Huan Lin, Jian Yang, Jianhong Tu, Jianwei Zhang, Jianxin Yang, Jiaxi Yang, Jingren Zhou, Junyang
     Lin, Kai Dang, Keming Lu, Keqin Bao, Kexin Yang, Le Yu, Mei Li, Mingfeng Xue, Pei Zhang, Qin Zhu, Rui Men, Runji
     Lin, Tianhao Li, Tianyi Tang, Tingyu Xia, Xingzhang Ren, Xuancheng Ren, Yang Fan, Yang Su, Yichang Zhang, Yu
     Wan, Yuqiong Liu, Zeyu Cui, Zhenru Zhang, and Zihan Qiu. 2025. Qwen2.5 Technical Report. arXiv:2412.15115 [cs.CL]
     https://arxiv.org/abs/2412.15115
[38] Md Atiqur Rahman and Yang Wang. 2016. Optimizing intersection-over-union in deep neural networks for image
     segmentation. In International symposium on visual computing. Springer, 234–244.
[39] Jeff Rasley, Samyam Rajbhandari, Olatunji Ruwase, and Yuxiong He. 2020. DeepSpeed: System Optimizations Enable
     Training Deep Learning Models with Over 100 Billion Parameters. In Proceedings of the 26th ACM SIGKDD International
     Conference on Knowledge Discovery & Data Mining (Virtual Event, CA, USA) (KDD ’20). Association for Computing
     Machinery, New York, NY, USA, 3505–3506. doi:10.1145/3394486.3406703
[40] Hamid Rezatofighi, Nathan Tsoi, JunYoung Gwak, Amir Sadeghian, Ian Reid, and Silvio Savarese. 2019. Generalized
     intersection over union: A metric and a loss for bounding box regression. In Proceedings of the IEEE/CVF conference on
     computer vision and pattern recognition. 658–666.
[41] Guoping Rong, Yongda Yu, Yifan Zhang, He Zhang, Haifeng Shen, Dong Shao, Hongyu Kuang, Min Wang, Zhao
     Wei, Yong Xu, et al. 2024. Distilling Quality Enhancing Comments from Code Reviews to Underpin Reviewer
     Recommendation. IEEE Transactions on Software Engineering (2024).
[42] Caitlin Sadowski, Emma Söderberg, Luke Church, Michal Sipko, and Alberto Bacchelli. 2018. Modern code review: a
     case study at google. In Proceedings of the 40th international conference on software engineering: Software engineering in
     practice. 181–190.
[43] John Schulman, Xi Chen, and Pieter Abbeel. 2017. Equivalence between policy gradients and soft q-learning. arXiv
     preprint arXiv:1704.06440 (2017).
[44] Shu-Ting Shi, Ming Li, David Lo, Ferdian Thung, and Xuan Huo. 2019. Automatic code review by learning the revision
     of source code. In Proceedings of the AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence, Vol. 33. 4910–4917.
[45] Tao Sun, Jian Xu, Yuanpeng Li, Zhao Yan, Ge Zhang, Lintao Xie, Lu Geng, Zheng Wang, Yueyan Chen, Qin Lin, et al.
     2025. BitsAI-CR: Automated Code Review via LLM in Practice. arXiv preprint arXiv:2501.15134 (2025).
[46] Qwen Team. 2025. QwQ-32B: Embracing the Power of Reinforcement Learning. https://qwenlm.github.io/blog/qwq-
     32b/
[47] Ngoc Tran, Hieu Tran, Son Nguyen, Hoan Nguyen, and Tien Nguyen. 2019. Does BLEU score work for code migration?.
     In 2019 IEEE/ACM 27th International Conference on Program Comprehension (ICPC). IEEE, 165–176.
[48] Rosalia Tufano, Luca Pascarella, Michele Tufano, Denys Poshyvanyk, and Gabriele Bavota. 2021. Towards automating
     code review activities. In 2021 IEEE/ACM 43rd International Conference on Software Engineering (ICSE). IEEE, 163–174.
[49] Jiaan Wang, Fandong Meng, Yunlong Liang, and Jie Zhou. 2024. Drt-o1: Optimized deep reasoning translation via long
     chain-of-thought. arXiv e-prints (2024), arXiv–2412.
[50] Yue Wang, Weishi Wang, Shafiq Joty, and Steven CH Hoi. 2021. Codet5: Identifier-aware unified pre-trained encoder-
     decoder models for code understanding and generation. arXiv preprint arXiv:2109.00859 (2021).
[51] Yaoting Wang, Shengqiong Wu, Yuecheng Zhang, Shuicheng Yan, Ziwei Liu, Jiebo Luo, and Hao Fei. 2025. Multimodal
     chain-of-thought reasoning: A comprehensive survey. arXiv preprint arXiv:2503.12605 (2025).
[52] Jason Wei, Xuezhi Wang, Dale Schuurmans, Maarten Bosma, Fei Xia, Ed Chi, Quoc V Le, Denny Zhou, et al. 2022.
     Chain-of-thought prompting elicits reasoning in large language models. Advances in neural information processing
     systems 35 (2022), 24824–24837.
[53] Ratnadira Widyasari, Ting Zhang, Abir Bouraffa, Walid Maalej, and David Lo. 2023. Explaining explanation: An
     empirical study on explanation in code reviews. arXiv preprint arXiv:2311.09020 (2023).
[54] Yuyang Wu, Yifei Wang, Ziyu Ye, Tianqi Du, Stefanie Jegelka, and Yisen Wang. 2025. When more is less: Understanding
     chain-of-thought length in llms. arXiv preprint arXiv:2502.07266 (2025).
[55] Yu Xia, Rui Wang, Xu Liu, Mingyan Li, Tong Yu, Xiang Chen, Julian McAuley, and Shuai Li. 2024. Beyond chain-of-
     thought: A survey of chain-of-x paradigms for llms. arXiv preprint arXiv:2404.15676 (2024).
[56] Lanxin Yang, Jinwei Xu, Yifan Zhang, He Zhang, and Alberto Bacchelli. 2023. Evacrc: Evaluating code review comments.
     In Proceedings of the 31st ACM Joint European Software Engineering Conference and Symposium on the Foundations of
     Software Engineering. 275–287.
[57] Edward Yeo, Yuxuan Tong, Morry Niu, Graham Neubig, and Xiang Yue. 2025. Demystifying long chain-of-thought
     reasoning in llms. arXiv preprint arXiv:2502.03373 (2025).


                                                          J. ACM, Vol. 37, No. 4, Article 111. Publication date: August 2018.
111:22                                                                                                          Yu et al.


[58] Edward Yeo, Yuxuan Tong, Morry Niu, Graham Neubig, and Xiang Yue. 2025. Demystifying long chain-of-thought
     reasoning in llms, 2025. URL https://arxiv. org/abs/2502.03373 (2025).
[59] Yongda Yu, Guoping Rong, Haifeng Shen, He Zhang, Dong Shao, Min Wang, Zhao Wei, Yong Xu, and Juhong Wang.
     2024. Fine-tuning large language models to improve accuracy and comprehensibility of automated code review. ACM
     transactions on software engineering and methodology 34, 1 (2024), 1–26.
[60] Yongda Yu, Lei Zhang, Guoping Rong, Haifeng Shen, Jiahao Zhang, Haoxiang Yan, Guohao Shi, Dong Shao, Ruiqi Pan,
     Yuan Li, et al. 2024. Distilling Desired Comments for Enhanced Code Review with Large Language Models. arXiv
     preprint arXiv:2412.20340 (2024).
[61] Ruohong Zhang, Bowen Zhang, Yanghao Li, Haotian Zhang, Zhiqing Sun, Zhe Gan, Yinfei Yang, Ruoming Pang, and
     Yiming Yang. 2024. Improve vision language model chain-of-thought reasoning. arXiv preprint arXiv:2410.16198 (2024).
[62] Yiheng Zhang, Yunkang Cao, Xiaohao Xu, and Weiming Shen. 2024. Logicode: an llm-driven framework for logical
     anomaly detection. IEEE Transactions on Automation Science and Engineering (2024).
[63] Zhuosheng Zhang, Aston Zhang, Mu Li, and Alex Smola. 2022. Automatic chain of thought prompting in large
     language models. arXiv preprint arXiv:2210.03493 (2022).
[64] Lianmin Zheng, Wei-Lin Chiang, Ying Sheng, Siyuan Zhuang, Zhanghao Wu, Yonghao Zhuang, Zi Lin, Zhuohan
     Li, Dacheng Li, Eric Xing, et al. 2023. Judging llm-as-a-judge with mt-bench and chatbot arena. Advances in neural
     information processing systems 36 (2023), 46595–46623.




J. ACM, Vol. 37, No. 4, Article 111. Publication date: August 2018.
