                                         CodeFuse-CR-Bench



                                         CodeFuse-CR-Bench: A Comprehensiveness-aware Benchmark for
                                         End-to-End Code Review Evaluation in Python Projects

                                                                     Hanyang Guo∗,1 Xunjin Zheng∗,1 Zihan Liao1
                                                                Hang Yu1,† Peng DI1,2,† Ziyin Zhang1 Hong-Ning Dai3

                                                            1 Ant Group 2 UNSW Sydney 3 Hong Kong Baptist University


                                                                   § https://github.com/codefuse-ai/SWE-CARE
                                                                 https://huggingface.co/datasets/inclusionAI/SWE-CARE
arXiv:2509.14856v3 [cs.SE] 23 Oct 2025




                                                                                       Abstract
                                                Automated code review (CR) is a key application for Large Language Models (LLMs),
                                                but progress is hampered by a “reality gap”: existing benchmarks evaluate models on
                                                isolated sub-tasks using simplified, context-poor data. This fails to reflect the holistic
                                                context-rich nature of real-world CR. To bridge this gap, we introduce CodeFuse-CR-
                                                Bench, the first comprehensiveness-aware benchmark for repository-level CR evaluation.
                                                CodeFuse-CR-Bench comprises 601 high-quality instances from 70 Python projects cov-
                                                ering nine Pull-Request (PR) problem domains, where each instance provides rich,
                                                multi-faceted context including the associated issue, PR details, and repository state,
                                                enabling end-to-end evaluation. Beyond superficial metrics, we also propose a novel
                                                evaluation framework that combines rule-based checks for location and syntax with
                                                model-based judgments of review quality. We present the first large-scale assessment
                                                of state-of-the-art LLMs on this comprehensive CR task. Our results establish crucial
                                                baselines and reveal that (1) no single LLM dominates all aspects of CR; (2) Gemini 2.5
                                                Pro achieves the highest comprehensive performance; and (3) different LLMs exhibit
                                                varying robustness to redundant context. These findings highlight the necessity of
                                                holistic, multi-dimensional evaluation and provide actionable insights for advancing
                                                truly intelligent yet practical CR assistants.


                                         1    Introduction

                                         Code Review (CR) is a core practice in modern software development that aims to improve code
                                         quality and identify defects through collaborative inspection (Bacchelli & Bird, 2013). As Large Lan-
                                         guage Models (LLMs) increasingly automate complex software engineering tasks, their application
                                         to CR holds immense promise for improving software quality and developer productivity. However,
                                         the development of such sophisticated tools is fundamentally constrained by how we measure their
                                         performance. Current benchmarks, while valuable, evaluate models in isolated, decontextualized
                                         settings, creating a significant and growing “reality gap” between measured performance and
                                         real-world efficacy.
                                         The core of this problem lies in a failure to capture the comprehensiveness of the CR process.
                                         Real-world CR is not a simple text-matching exercise; instead it is a holistic reasoning task that
                                         requires a deep understanding of context. This disconnection manifests in three critical limitations
                                         of existing automated CR research, as demonstrated in Table 1:
                                         1. Task Fragmentation: The cognitive process of a human reviewer—understanding the initial
                                            problem, locating potential issues in a code change, and formulating a coherent review—is
                                             ∗ Equal Contribution.
                                             † Correspondence to: Hang Yu <hyu.hugo@antgroup.com> and Peng Di <dipeng.dp@antgroup.com>.



                                                                                            1
  CodeFuse-CR-Bench



  Table 1: A comparative analysis of CodeFuse-CR-Bench and other prominent code review (CR) and
  issue-solving benchmarks, illustrating the “comprehensiveness gap” in existing CR evaluation. The
  table demonstrates the “task fragmentation” and “context poverty” of prior benchmarks, which
  often omit crucial information necessary for a holistic review. CodeFuse-CR-Bench addresses this gap
  by providing rich, repository-level context, encompassing PR and issue details, commit history, and
  the complete patch for review. Legend: = Present, # = Absent, #       G = Partially Present. Refer to
  Section 3.3 for more details.
                                               Trans-Review              AutoTransform                T5-Review           CodeReviewer             AUGER                SWE-Bench            Multi-SWE-Bench         FAUN-Eval
      Benckmarks        CodeFuse-CR-Bench
                                            (Tufano et al., 2021)   (Thongtanunam et al., 2022)   (Tufano et al., 2022)   (Li et al., 2022b)   (Li et al., 2022a)   (Jimenez et al., 2024)    (Zan et al., 2025)   (Hu et al., 2024)
       Instance ID                                   #                          #                          #                    #                     #                                                                   #
      Owner/Repo                                     #                          #                          #                    #                     #
        Language                                     #                          #                          #                    #                     #                       #
         Pull No.                                    #                          #                          #                    #                     #
           Title                                     #                          #                          #                    #                     #                       #                      #
        Created at                                   #                          #                          #                    #                     #
      Base Commit                                    #                          #                          #                    #                     #
          Body                                       #                          #                          #                    #                     #                       #                      #
           ISP1                                      #                          #                          #                    #                     #                                                                   #
        Hint Text                                    #                          #                          #                    #                     #                                                                   #
   Resolved Issue No.                                #                          #                          #                    #                     #                                                                   #
           CPR2                                   G: MLP6
                                                  #                           #
                                                                              G:MLP                     G
                                                                                                        #: MLP               #
                                                                                                                             G: DHLP               #
                                                                                                                                                   G: MLP                                                                 #
     Head Commit                                     #                          #                          #                    #                     #                       #                      #                    #
          HCM3                                       #                          #                          #                    #                     #                       #                      #                    #
    Problem Domain                                   #                          #                          #                    #                     #                       #                      #                    #
        Difficulty                                   #                          #                          #                    #                     #                       #                      #                    #
           RCT4                                                                 #                                                                                             #                      #
        Diff Hunk                                    #                          #                          #                                          #                                                                   #
     Review Effort                                   #                          #                          #                     #                    #                       #                      #                    #
          MCP5                                       #                          #                          #                     #                    #
     Merge Commit                                    #                          #                          #                     #                    #                                                                   #
   1 Issue Problem Statement   2 Commit Patch to Review      3 Head Commit Message        4 Review Comment Text           5 Merge Commit Patch          6 Method-level Patch        7 Diff-Hunk-level Patch




      often broken down into isolated sub-tasks like comment generation or code refinement. This
      fragmentation prevents the evaluation of end-to-end reasoning, a crucial capability for a truly
      useful automated reviewer.
   2. Context Poverty: Existing benchmarks typically provide only small, self-contained code snippets
      and strip away the rich context that is essential for meaningful review, such as the Pull Request
      (PR) description, the linked issue report, and the broader repository structure. Without this
      context, a model cannot grasp the intent behind a change, making its review superficial.
   3. Evaluation Narrowness: Evaluation metrics are often inherited from natural language processing
      (NLP) tasks (e.g., BLEU). These metrics reward superficial textual similarity but fail to assess the
Introduction
      substantive quality of a review. They cannot distinguish a technically insightful suggestion from
      a syntactically similar but incorrect one, nor can they verify if a review comment is even placed at
 Process   of Code
      the correct   Reviewin the code.
                  location
                                                                                                                  In contrast, as shown in Figure 1, a typical
                                                                                                                  CR process is a holistic reasoning task. The
                                                                                                                  code reviewer receives a CR request and the
          PR-related Information                                         CR-related Information                   corresponding PR information, which includes
               PR Description                                               Review Location                       PR-related information such as the PR descrip-
                                                                      (File Path, Line, Diff Hunk)
                                                Code Review
                                                                                                                  tion and associated issue data. Based on this
      Associated Issue Description
                                                                          Revision Suggestion                     rich context, the reviewer performs the review
     Commit Information (Message,
              Patch, etc.)                                                 Review Comment                         by writing comments and revision suggestions,
                                                                                                                  which constitute the CR-related information.
                               Figure 1: CR Process  To bridge the gap between this reality and
                                                     current evaluation methods, we introduce
                                                     CodeFuse-CR-Bench, a Comprehensiveness-
  Aware benchmark for Repository-level Evaluation of code review. CodeFuse-CR-Bench is designed
  from the ground up to model this full CR workflow. It comprises 601 high-quality instances curated
  from 70 real-world Python open-source projects. Each instance is a rich, self-contained snapshot of a
  real review task, encompassing basic information, PR-related information, CR-related information,
  and repository-level context. This multi-faceted context enables models to engage in the kind of
  holistic reasoning that developers perform daily.
  Furthermore, to move beyond narrow, syntax-focused metrics, we designed a comprehensive
  evaluation framework for CodeFuse-CR-Bench. This framework integrates both fine-grained rule-


                                                                                                           2
CodeFuse-CR-Bench



based metrics (to assess location accuracy and semantic similarity) and holistic model-based
evaluation (which uses the reward model and advanced LLMs-as-judges to score the overall quality,
relevance, and correctness of a review). Using this benchmark and framework, we conduct the first
large-scale assessment of state-of-the-art LLMs on the comprehensive CR task. Our results establish
crucial baselines and reveal the current capabilities and limitations of LLMs when faced with the
complexities of real-world code review.
In summary, this paper makes the following contributions:
• We identify and characterize the "comprehensiveness gap" in current CR research, highlighting
  how task fragmentation, context poverty, and narrow evaluation metrics hinder progress.
• We introduce CodeFuse-CR-Bench, the first comprehensiveness-aware CR benchmark that pro-
  vides rich, repository-level context to enable the evaluation of end-to-end CR tasks across nine
  distinct problem domains.
• We propose a novel, multi-faceted evaluation framework that combines rule-based precision with
  model-based quality assessment to provide a more holistic measure of CR performance.
• We conduct an extensive empirical study on multiple state-of-the-art LLMs, providing the first
  robust baseline for comprehensive CR and offering insights into future research directions.


2     Related Work

2.1   CR-related Tasks

Previously, the vast majority of benchmarks and approaches were constructed to improve CR
performance (Jiang et al., 2025). Tufano et al. (Tufano et al., 2021) proposed Trans-Review, which
adopted deep learning models to partially automate specific CR tasks. They trained two models
to implement two CR sub-tasks: (i) code revision before review and (ii) code revision after review.
Based on this prior work, they (Tufano et al., 2022) updated the models from deep learning models
to the pre-training model T5 and named it T5-Review. The results demonstrated that T5-Review can
outperform previous deep learning models for automating CR tasks. Thongtanunam et al. (Thongta-
nunam et al., 2022) proposed AutoTransform, which leverages a Byte-Pair Encoding (BPE) approach
to handle new tokens and a Transformer-based Neural Machine Translation architecture to handle
long sequences. It can be used in the task of code revision before review. Zhou et al. (Zhou et al.,
2023) evaluated the above three automatic CR tools and pre-trained models for three processes in
CR: code revision before review, review comment generation, and code revision after review. The
results show that a general-purpose pre-trained model CodeT5 can outperform other models in most
cases. Li et al. (Li et al., 2022a) proposed a review comments generator with pre-training models,
which is called AUGER. They collected empirical review data from 11 notable Java projects and
constructed a dataset of 10,882 code changes to evaluate the performance of the proposed approach.
Li et al. (Li et al., 2022b) proposed a pre-trained model that utilized four pre-training tasks tailored
specifically for the CR scenario, named CodeReviewer. They focused on three key tasks related
to CR activities, including code change quality estimation, review comment generation, and code
refinement to evaluate the model. They also constructed a high-quality benchmark dataset based
on our collected data for these three tasks and conducted comprehensive experiments on it. The
experiments demonstrated the SOTA results. Additionally, some LLM-based CR approaches were
proposed. Guo et al. (Guo et al., 2024) conducted the first empirical study to explore the capabilities
of ChatGPT in CR tasks, specifically focusing on automated code revision after reviews. They
constructed a new CR dataset with high quality based on the existing benchmark CodeReview (Li
et al., 2022b). A SOTA CR tool (Li et al., 2022b) was selected as a baseline. The research study
provided insights into the potential of ChatGPT in automating the CR process.
As an important upstream sub-task of CR, issue-solving has also been extensively studied. The
content of issue-solving can provide more complete contexts for CR. Some issue-solving benchmarks
had been proposed. Jimenez et al. (Jimenez et al., 2024) proposed a benchmark, SWE-Bench, that
evaluates LLMs in resolving an issue (typically a bug report or a feature request) submitted to
popular Python GitHub repositories. Zan et al. (Zan et al., 2025) enlarged the SWE-Bench dataset by


                                                   3
CodeFuse-CR-Bench



adding other programming languages’ issue-solving and named it Multi-SWE-bench. Hu et al. (Hu
et al., 2024) proposed FAUN-Eval, a benchmark specifically designed to evaluate the fine-grained
issue-solving capabilities of LLMs. It can be used to systematically assess LLMs across three distinct
tasks: Question-Answer (QA), fault localization, and code editing.
However, either the above approaches or the benchmarks focus on the sub-tasks of CR. The
design and construction are comprehensiveness-unaware. To fill this gap, we construct a
comprehensiveness-aware benchmark and evaluation metrics for CR. We conduct an empirical study
on some SOTA LLMs based on this benchmark to evaluate their performance in comprehensive CR
tasks.

2.2   LLM for Software Engineering Tasks

Recently, LLMs have demonstrated revolutionary performance improvements in almost all software-
engineering-related tasks. Regarding general LLMs, the GPT series (Liang et al., 2024), Claude,
Gemini, and others had demonstrated powerful code generation, summarization, and program
repair through training on large corpora containing code (Feng et al., 2024; Cao et al., 2024; Wang
et al., 2025b; Zhao et al., 2023; Fan et al., 2023). Specifically, a systematic comparative analysis
was conducted on three advanced LLMs, including ChatGPT (O1), DeepSeek (R1), and Gemini
(2.0 Flash thinking), for Python code generation, evaluating their performance in correctness, code
quality, and computational efficiency. Each of the three LLMs has its own strengths and limitations.
Their findings underscored the inherent trade-offs between efficiency, accuracy, and quality in
AI-generated code. Sobo et al. (Sobo et al., 2025) investigated the effectiveness of LLMs in generating
code for Human-Robot Interaction applications. They compared the performance among ChatGPT
3.5, Gemini 1.5 Pro, and Claude 3.5 Sonnet. The study highlighted the rapid advancement in
LLM capabilities for specialized programming tasks while also identifying persistent challenges in
spatial reasoning and adherence to specific constraints. Zhang et al. (Zhang et al., 2024) evaluated
the capability of advanced LLMs, including ChatGPT-4 and Claude, in fixing memory corruption
vulnerabilities in real-world C/C++ code. They analyzed both the strengths and limitations of LLMs
in automated program repair on genuine code. Sun et al. (Sun et al., 2025) conducted the examination
of prevalent automated evaluation methods for assessing the quality of summaries generated by
LLMs and found that the results of the GPT-4 evaluation method are most closely aligned with
human evaluation. They also discussed the limitations of LLMs in generating summarization in
logic programming languages. All the software-engineering-related tasks mentioned above are
highly relevant to CR in technical terms. Therefore, it is possible for LLMs to perform comprehensive
CR tasks. In our paper, we select several representative LLMs and evaluate their comprehensive CR
capabilities using our constructed benchmark and designed evaluation metrics.


3     CodeFuse-CR-Bench Benchmark

Having established the "comprehensiveness gap" in current CR research, this section details the
design and construction of CodeFuse-CR-Bench. We present the benchmark overview, benchmark
construction pipeline, and benchmark characteristics in Section 3.1, Section 3.2, and Section 3.3,
respectively.

3.1   Benchmark Overview

CodeFuse-CR-Bench comprises 601 Python CR task instances, each carefully curated to reflect real-
world development scenarios. Fig. 2 illustrates an overview of a typical CR task instance. Each
instance is associated with 22 structured fields, as summarized in Table 2. These instances can be
systematically categorized into the following four types to support comprehensive CR:
• Basic information: Instance ID, Owner/Repo, and Language, providing fundamental identification
  of the task.


                                                  4
CodeFuse-CR-Bench



                                                                      Task Instance Overview
         Instance ID scikit-learn__scikit-learn-28043@2c261c9                 Owner/Repo scikit-learn/scikit-learn      Language Python
         Title ENH Add support for np.nan values Created at                        Pull No. 28043
                                                                                                   Base Commit
         in SplineTransformer                                 2024-01-02T12:05:59Z                 c92330fee2f602802446a0c3c6023f1908004d13
         Body                                                                                 Issue Problem Statement
         Reference Issues/PRs                                          Handle np.nan / missing values in SplineTransformer
         Closes #26793                                                 …
         #### What does this implement/fix? Explain your changes.
         Adds support for np.nan values in SplineTransformer.
                                                                       Hint Text
                                                                       Note: we could also add `handle_missing=\"passthrough\"`
         adds param `handle_missing : {'error', 'zeros'}` to __init__,
                                                                       for consistency with other preprocessors that allow this.
         …                                                                                                                                                                  comments from issues bef
                                                                       …                                                                                                    commit
                                                                                                                                      Head Commit Message
         Resolved issues No.: 26793                Head Commit: 2c261c939c6385da0bb08748f88c36fc2fa6ac72                              delete Unused code
         Commit Patch to Review                                                                         Review Commet Text
         …                                                                                              @user1:
         diff --git a/sklearn/preprocessing/_polynomial.py b/sklearn/preprocessing/_polynomial.py       In terms of API, I think it'll be a lot more consistent to call t
         index f4c9fb032cfb0..9254a20689812 100644                                                      his `\"ignore\"` instead of `\"zeros\"`.
         --- a/sklearn/preprocessing/_polynomial.py                                                     …
         +++ b/sklearn/preprocessing/_polynomial.py
         @@ -14,6 +14,7 @@
                                                                                                        Diff Hunk
         …                                                                                              @@ -642,6 +643,14 @@
                                                                                                        class SplineTransformer(TransformerMixin, BaseEstimator)
         Review Path sklearn/preprocessing/_polynomial.py                                               …

         Merge Commit Patch                                                                       Merge Commit
         diff --                                                                                  08a72304bf37a11fc68875a437af176cbf1e37c0
         git a/sklearn/preprocessing/_polynomial.py b/sklearn/preprocessing/_polynomial.py
         index 69bfe7b212bba..fd705fd9bfc6e 100644
                                                                                                  Problem Domain New Feature Additions
         --- a/sklearn/preprocessing/_polynomial.py
         +++ b/sklearn/preprocessing/_polynomial.py
                                                                                                  Difficulty Medium
         @@ -17,6 +17,7 @@
         …                                                                                        Review Effort 4


                                      Figure 2: The Overview of A Typical CR Task Instance


• PR-related information: Encompasses metadata critical to understanding the change intent and
  context, including Pull No., Title, Created at, Base Commit, Body, Issue Problem Statement, Hint
  Text, Resolved issue No., Commit Patch to Review, Head Commit, Head Commit Message, Problem
  Domain, and Difficulty.
• CR-related information: Captures the review process itself, including Review Comment Text, Diff
  Hunk, Review Path, and Review Effort, enabling analysis of reviewer behavior and feedback quality.
• Repository-Level Context Information: Provides broader project-level context necessary for
  cross-file reasoning and impact analysis, including Merge Commit Patch and Merge Commit.

3.2     Benchmark Construction Pipeline

As depicted in Fig. 3, the construction pipeline of CodeFuse-CR-Bench consists of five steps, namely,
(1) Repository Selection; (2) PR Crawling and Attribute-based Filtering; (3) PR Classification; (4)
Feature Labeling; and (5) Manual Selection & Annotation. We next briefly elaborate on them.

               230 High Quality Repositories                                                                        40,124 CR Task Instances



      Repository Selection         PR Crawling & Attribute-          PR Classification                 Feature Labeling          Manual Selection &
        Top-1000 Highly Stared     based Filtering                     Extract Target Commit             Problem Domain,         Annotation
        Python Repositories         Associated with Closing Issues     based on Heuristic Rules          Difficulty, Review         Selected by Two
                                                                                                         Effort                     Experienced Developers
        PR Count > 1,500                                               Extract and Classify
                                    Merged PR
                                                                       Review Comments
                                                                                                                                                             601 Instances from
        Maintained in the Last 1                                                                                                                              70 Repositories
        Year



                                         Figure 3: CodeFuse-CR-Bench Construction Pipeline


3.2.1     Repository Selection

To make CodeFuse-CR-Bench more representative, we adopt a strict approach to selecting CR task
instances from various open-source repositories. We focus on Python as it is one of the most popular
languages on GitHub, possessing a mature and diverse open-source ecosystem. This ensures a
rich source of projects with standardized and high-quality CR practices, which is essential for our
benchmark’s validity. Specifically, we first search for the top 1,000 starred Python repositories on


                                                                                       5
CodeFuse-CR-Bench



                              Table 2: Details of Fields in CR Task Instance

 Category                   Field                     Description
                            Instance ID               A formatted instance identifier,      which is named as
 Basic Information                                    repo_owner__repo_name-PR-number@commit_hash_prefix.
                            Owner/Repo                Repository owner and repository name.
                            Language                  Repository programming language.
                            Pull No.                  PR No. that this task instance is from.
                            Title                     PR title.
                            Created at                PR creation date.
                            Base Commit               Commit hash in this repository before the PR is applied.
                            Body                      PR description body.
                            Issue Problem Statement   Issue(s) title and body.
 PR-related Information     Hint Text                 Comments made on the issue(s) before the creation of the
                                                      commit to review of the solution PR.
                            Resolved issue No.        The number of the issue(s) solved by the PR.
                            Commit Patch to Review    The target commit patch in the PR to review.
                            Head Commit               The commit hash of the target commit patch in the PR.
                            Head Commit Message       The commit message of the target commit patch.
                            Problem Domain            The nine problem domains where the issue problem statement
                                                      belongs (Section 3.2.4).
                            Difficulty                PR task implementation difficulty.
                            Review Comment Text       The text of the review comment.
                            Diff Hunk                 The diff hunk where the review comment is located
 CR-related Information
                            Review Path               The file path where the review comment is located.
                            Review Effort             The review effort for a CR task.
 Repository-Level Context   Merge Commit Patch        The gold patch generated by the PR to resolve the issue.
 Information                Merge Commit              The merged commit hash of the PR.



GitHub1 , a Git-based code hosting and collaboration platform. A higher star rating indicates that the
repository has better popularity. To ensure the quality of the repository and acquire a large pool of
potential CR data, we further sort the projects by the number of PRs and filter out projects with less
than 1,500 PRs, referring to Li’s study (Li et al., 2022b). Additionally, we only keep the repositories
that were maintained in the last year (from 2024-08-15 to 2025-08-15), i.e., the repositories that had
commit or PR records over the past year. The process mentioned above aims to keep only active
projects and remove repositories that are forked from other repositories, as the PR number is not
inherited. This process yielded 230 Python projects that meet our criteria for activity and maturity.

3.2.2   PR Crawling & Attribute-based Filtering
In this step, we aim to crawl high-quality PR data. To ensure the collected PR data contains high-
quality CR, we filter it based on the following attributes: (1) We only include PRs that have at least 1
closing issue reference; (2) We only collect the PR that is merged into the main branch. A “Merged”
status indicates that the code changes associated with the PR were accepted and incorporated into
its parent repository. We conduct this process by using GitHub GraphQL API2 . The PRs selected
based on these attributes undergo rigorous CR, thereby ensuring that the CR data selected under
these PRs is of high quality (Zheng et al., 2025).

3.2.3   PR Classification
Since each PR instance contains multiple commits, our goal in this step is to identify high-quality
commits within each PR and extract their corresponding high-quality CR-related information.
Firstly, we design several heuristic rules to evaluate the commits and give an evaluation score.
The details of heuristic rules are shown in Table 3. They are categorized into three types: high-
impact rules, medium-impact rules, and low-impact rules. A higher impact level signifies greater
   1 https://github.com/
   2 https://docs.github.com/en/graphql



                                                        6
CodeFuse-CR-Bench



                                  Table 3: Heuristic Rules to Evaluate Commits

        Category       Rules                                  Description
                       has_resolved_review_comments           Evaluate if the commit has resolved review comments. True score: 1 (Receive
                                                              meaningful feedback and improvements); False score: 0.
                       has_referenced_line_changed_comments   Evaluate if the commit has review comments where the referenced lines were
                                                              changed in the merged commit. True score: 1 (Comments addressed real issues
  High-impact Rules                                           that got fixed); False score: 0.
                       exclude_merge_commit                   Evaluate if this is NOT a merge commit (merge commits should have low
                                                              scores). Commits with "Merge branch" or >2 parents score: 0. Otherwise score:
                                                              1.
                       exclude_base_merge_commit              Evaluate if this is NOT a base/merge commit (score 0 for base and merged
                                                              commits). Base commits and final merge commits are typically not worthy of
                                                              review.
                       clear_commit_message                   Evaluate the clarity of the commit message based on message length, structure,
                                                              and content. Give a score from 0 to 1 based on proper message length (10-200
                                                              words), structure (multi lines), and meaningful content (include generic words
                                                              such as “fix" and “update").
                       conventional_commit                    Evaluate if the commit follows conventional commit format. Score 1 to commits
 Medium-impact Rules                                          start with type(scope): description; else 0.
                       reasonable_commit_size                 Evaluate if the commit has a reasonable size. Give a score from 0 to 1 based on
                                                              the number of changed files and lines (Ideal range: 10-200 lines changed and
                                                              1-10 files changed).
                       has_associated_review_comments         Score 1 if the commit has any associated review comments; else 0. Commits
                                                              with review comments are likely more significant.
                       issue_reference                        Score 1 if the commit message references an issue; else 0.
                       semantic_commit_message                Score of 1 if the commit message is semantic and descriptive; else 0. Checks for
                                                              action words and descriptive content such as “add", “remove" and so on.
                       focused_file_changes                   Evaluate if the commit changes are focused on related files. Score from 0 to 1,
   Low-impact rules                                           and higher scores mean that commits that change files in the same directory or
                                                              with a similar purpose (i.e., fewer changed files).
                       descriptive_commit_content             Evaluate if the commit has more descriptive content beyond just the message.
                                                              Score from 0 to 1 based on line count, message length, and structured content
                                                              (marked by lists or sections).




importance and carries more weight in the scoring (high weight: 3.0, medium weight: 2.0, low
weight: 1.0). We assign the highest weight to rules indicating direct, actionable review feedback
(e.g., has_resolved_review_comments), as these are the strongest indicators of a meaningful CR
process. Rules related to best practices and commit clarity receive medium weight, while secondary
indicators like issue references have a low weight. Description presents the scoring details of each
heuristic rule. By implementing a weighted sum scoring, we obtain an overall score for each commit.
Based on the overall score, we rank the commits in each PR and extract the target commit with the
highest score.
After getting the target commit, high-quality CR task instances can be extracted from the target
commit. Specifically, we extract and review comments based on whether referenced lines were
actually changed in the merged commit, or the review thread was resolved, outdated, or collapsed.
Review comments containing the aforementioned attributes will have their corresponding CRs
labeled as high-quality CR task instances.


3.2.4    Feature Labeling

In this step, we classify the three attributes: problem domain, difficulty, and review effort. Problem
domain refers to the category that the PR’s associated issue problem statement belongs to. Referring
to SWE-Bench (Jimenez et al., 2024), an issue-solving benchmark, there are nine categories of PR
problem domains, as summarized in Table 4. Difficulty means how difficult it would be to implement
a PR. It can be categorized as low, medium, and high. Review effort means the effort required
to review a code change. It is on a scale of 1 to 5. 5 means the most effort. If the repository
contains annotations for the above three attributes, we directly utilize the labels from the repository.
Otherwise, we employ the LLM-as-a-judge approach (Gu et al., 2025). We leverage the Qwen3-235B-
A22B model (Yang et al., 2025), constructing prompts from the Title, Body, Commit Patch to Review,
and Head Commit Message fields in Table 2 as input to classify the three attributes. At last, we get
40,124 CR task instances.


                                                                  7
CodeFuse-CR-Bench



                                             Table 4: Problem Domain Category

                  Problem Domain                       Description
                     Bug Fixes (BF)                    Resolving functional errors, crashes, incorrect outputs
             New Feature Additions (NFA)               Adding new functionality or features to the application
  Code Refactoring / Architectural Improvement (CA)    Improving code structure, readability, maintainability without changing external behavior
              Documentation Update (DU)                Changes related to code comments or external documentation
          Test Suite / CI Enhancements (TC)            Improving test coverage, test quality, or continuous integration processes
           Performance Optimizations (PO)              Improving application speed, response time, or resource usage efficiency
       Security Patches / Vulnerability Fixes (SV)     Fixing code defects that could lead to security issues
 Dependency Updates & Environment Compatibility (DE)   Updating third-party library dependencies or ensuring compatibility across different environments
      Code Style, Linting, Formatting Fixes (CLF)      Ensuring code complies with team coding standards and consistency




3.2.5    Manual Selection & Annotation

In this step, we manually select high-quality CR task instances that cover nine types of PR problem
domains from the 40,124 CR task instances that have passed the filtering process above to serve as
the benchmark. Specifically, we invite two of the authors who have more than 5 years of Python
development experience to conduct the selection. Firstly, we find that a non-negligible percentage of
review comments, while linked to source code lines in the commit patch, are unlikely to result in
code revision in the next round. This kind of review comment is regarded as a noise comment. For
example, if a review: (1) that is a simple case (e.g., “looks good to me”, “Thanks!” or “Nice”); (2) only
requests formatting changes with no impact on code logic (e.g., “fix indentation”, “add spaces”);
(3) requests adding tests (these do not change the code under review); (4) asks for clarification or
explanation without suggesting changes (e.g., “please explain”, “what does this do?”); (5) refer
previous comments that cannot be identified (e.g., “same as before”, “see above”); (6) only requests
adding comments or documentation (e.g., “add Javadoc”, “document this method”); (7) that is
difficult to identify (e.g., “At least here it is clear that the equals method of the implementers of
TreeNode is important”), it is considered as a noise and irrelevant review comment. Instances that
include these comments are not selected in the final benchmark. In addition, we remove instances
whose issue problem statement has images, external hyperlinks, references to specific commit SHAs,
and references to other pull requests or issues (Jimenez et al., 2024). The instance with fewer than 40
words in the problem statement is also removed. They are not considered in our scenario. Based on
the above rules, we have filtered out 7,086 instances. After that, referring to SWE-Bench (Jimenez
et al., 2024) and Multi-SWE-Bench (Zan et al., 2025), we design a questionnaire3 about instance
quality assessment and ask the two developers to complete the questionnaire for each instance. This
questionnaire covers the following areas: (1) Problem statement and patch alignment; (2) Review
scope and comment coverage; (3) Defects identified in the patch; (4) Difficulty and review effort; (5)
Overall patch quality and risk; (6) Dataset suitability; and (7) Confidence. Thereby, we select the 601
high-quality instances from 70 projects by manual annotation.

3.3     Benchmark Characteristics

3.3.1    Comprehensiveness-aware Benchmark

CodeFuse-CR-Bench is the pioneering CR benchmark to introduce the comprehensiveness-aware
concept. Table 1 lists the difference of CodeFuse-CR-Bench and other representative benchmarks
presented in Section 2.1, where means containing relevant information, # means containing no
relevant information, and # G means only containing partial relevant information. We highlight
a significant oversight in prior research: the comprehensiveness of a CR task. Most of the other
CR benchmarks lack basic information and repository-level context information. They only have
method-level patches and review comments, which significantly deviate from real CR scenarios.
Consequently, they make automatic CR approaches miss some context information that contributes
to CR. Further, the performance of LLMs in real-world CR remains unknown. Regarding some issue-
solving benchmarks, they also lack some PR and CR-related information. CodeFuse-CR-Bench fills
this gap by including basic information, repository-level context information, and more completed
   3 To be presented.



                                                                         8
CodeFuse-CR-Bench



                                         Comprehensive Evaluation Metric



                Model-based Evaluation                                        Rule-based Evaluation



         Reward Model            LLM-as-a-Judge         Location Similarity    Semantics Similarity   Defects Match


                                   Figure 4: Evaluation Metric Framework


PR-related and CR-related information. Thereby, they can achieve repository-level CR. It serves
as a benchmark that better simulates real-world CR, aiming to more accurately reflect the true
performance of CR approaches.

3.3.2    Strict Filter Process

We ensure the quality of the selected CR task instances from several aspects. First, we ensure that the
selected projects are of high quality because high-quality projects are generally mature and active.
They also have excellent maintenance and a complete PR and CR process. We select Python projects
from the top 1,000 projects based on the number of stars, with an average of 21k stars. Also, we
keep projects with more than 1,500 PRs, making the collection focus on those with rich, mature, and
standardized CR practices. Retaining only projects maintained within the past year ensures that the
analysis focuses on “active” projects whose CR practices reflect contemporary standards, thereby
guaranteeing the research’s cutting-edge relevance and practical applicability.
In addition, we ensure that we select merged PRs and PRs with at least 1 closing issue reference. On
the one hand, merged PRs indicate that the PR has passed the project’s quality gates (including CR
and automated testing). On the other hand, PRs associated with closing issues can make sure that
every PR has a clear, traceable development intent and rich context.
Furthermore, we design complete heuristic rules to select a representative commit for each PR. These
rules can ensure the selected commits: (1) directly reflect collaboration and improvements during
CR (e.g., has_resolved_review_comments); (2) possess clear, structured, and traceable contextual
information (e.g., conventional_commit, issue_reference); (3) adhere to best practices for atomicity
and focus (e.g., reasonable_commit_size, focused_file_changes); (4) exclude noise commits generated
by version control operations that do not reflect development intent (e.g., exclude_merge_commit).
All these rules can ensure the selected commits have high quality.


4     Evaluation Metric Design

A comprehensive benchmark like CodeFuse-CR-Bench requires an equally comprehensive evaluation
framework. Existing evaluation metrics on CR only focus on the method-level patch to review,
and they only involve evaluation of semantics similarity and consistency, which can not adapt
to comprehensive CR. We propose a comprehensive evaluation metric to evaluate the quality of
comprehensive CR. Fig. 4 shows an overview of the evaluation metric. It consists of two parts,
model-based evaluation and rule-based evaluation.

4.1     Model-base Evaluation

Model-based evaluation is a black-box evaluation designed to leverage the powerful semantic
understanding capabilities of LLMs to score and evaluate the quality of CR. It aims to simulate
human judgment of CR’s “semantic quality” and “usefulness”. In our paper, we use two kinds of
evaluators in model-based evaluation, namely, the reward model and LLM-as-a-judge (Son et al.,
2024).


                                                             9
CodeFuse-CR-Bench



4.1.1   Reward Model

Reward model (Yang et al., 2024) is an AI model that learns human preferences. Its core task is: given
an input and one or more model outputs (Output/Candidate), it outputs a scalar score (Reward
Score) that predicts the degree of human preference for that output (i.e., the extent to which it is
perceived as high quality). In order to train a reward model to evaluate comprehensive CR, we need
to collect the corresponding training set and design the training strategy.
Data Collection. Firstly, we define the positive CR data and the negative CR data. We collect
data from GitHub repositories with over 100 stars. To prevent data leakage, we filter out the
repositories used to select CR task instances in Fig. 3. We use commits as the collection unit
and adopt the has_resolved_review_comments and has_referenced_line_changed_comments rules from
Table 3 as labeling criteria. If both rules are True, the commit is classified as positive CR data and
labeled as 1. Otherwise, the commit is classified as negative CR data and labeled as 0. At last, we
collect 174,661 positive data and 114,458 negative data.
Training Strategy. Our reward model is built upon the Qwen3-8B (Yang et al., 2025) pretrained
LLM, where we replace the final LM head layer with a Multi-Layer Perceptron consisting of
two linear layers and a ReLU activation function. The first linear layer has dimensions of
(hidden_size, hidden_size), while the second layer has dimensions of (hidden_size, 1). The final
output represents a relevance score indicating how well the CR correlates with the given query and
patch.
The training loss comprises two components. The first component follows a similar approach to the
reward model training in InstructGPT (Ouyang et al., 2022), employing a contrastive learning-style
Bayesian Personalized Ranking (BPR) loss (Rendle et al., 2012). Specifically, for the same query
and patch, we sample positive and negative reviews along with their corresponding code context
(reviewed file content as default) and diff hunks to achieve this objective. The loss is formulated as:

                                LBPR = − log σ(rθ ( x, y+ ) − rθ ( x, y− )).                          (1)

Additionally, considering our application scenario of classifying review relevance, we introduce an
auxiliary classification objective using binary cross-entropy loss (Wang et al., 2025a), that is,
                                         N
                             LBCE = − ∑ [li log pi + (1 − li ) log(1 − pi )],                         (2)
                                        i =1

where pi = σ (rθ ( xi , yi )). Specifically, rθ denotes the reward model parameterized by θ, x represents
the input consisting of query and patch information, y+ and y− denote positive and negative reviews
respectively, σ is the sigmoid function, li ∈ {0, 1} is the binary relevance label for the i-th sample,
and pi is the predicted probability of relevance. The total training loss is the weighted combination
of these two components:
                                              Ltotal = LBPR + λLBCE ,                                 (3)
where λ controls the relative importance of LBCE . We set it to 1 by default.
Implementation Details. For efficient training, we employ Low-Rank Adaptation (LoRA) (Hu
et al., 2022a) as our parameter-efficient fine-tuning method with a rank of 32 and an alpha value
of 16, which significantly reduces the number of trainable parameters while maintaining model
performance. The model is trained for 1 epoch with a learning rate of 5e − 5. To accommodate the
comprehensive CR context, we set the maximum sequence length to 24,576 tokens, enabling the
model to process lengthy code patches and associated reviews effectively.
We utilize Flash Attention 2 (Dao, 2024) for memory-efficient attention computation, with mixed
precision training with bfloat16. The training process incorporates 100 warm-up steps for learning
rate scheduling to ensure stable convergence. The distributed training is conducted using DeepSpeed
ZeRO (Rajbhandari et al., 2020) Stage 2. All experiments are conducted on 32 NVIDIA A100 GPUs
with a total effective batch size of 64.


                                                    10
CodeFuse-CR-Bench



                        System Prompt
                        You are a code review evaluator. Your task is to evaluate the quality of the code review. You
                        need to evaluate the code reviews based on the quality attributes of a standard code review,
                        which are shown below:                                                                          User Prompt
                                                                                                                        Please evaluate the following code review
                     - Functionality: An evaluation of whether the main purpose of the patch, its functionality, and    based on the provided context and review
                     any potential functional or security defects have been described.
                     - Quality: An evaluation of the accuracy of code quality descriptions, including patch             text.
         Perspective complexity (line-level, function-level, class-level, file-level), code readability, optimization
         Description status, and maintainability, etc.                                                                  <pull_request_info>
                     - Style: An evaluation of whether the patch follows the programming conventions of the             Title: {title}
                     original code, e.g. the naming of variables and functions.                                         Repository: {repo}
                     - Documentation: An evaluation of whether the patch provide clear and necessary comments,
                     as well as documentation.                                                                          </pull_request_info>

                     For each field, you should analyze:                                                                <problem_statement>
                     - Correctness: whether the review is technically correct and contains no factual errors with       {problem_statement}
                     regard to the provided issue, code base, and patch.                                                </problem_statement>
                     - Relevance: whether the review is targeted at the issue and the code patch.
         Dimension - Clarity: whether the review is clear and without redundant information.                                                                        Input Format
         Description - Consistency: whether the review is logically consistent with the issue, code base, patch,        <commit_to_review>
                     and other fields in the review.                                                                    Commit: {head_commit}
                     - Language: whether the review uses professional language and contains no grammatical              Commit Message: {head_commit_message}
                     errors. Whether it facilitate the knowledge transfer, expresses in a kind way and provides         </commit_to_review>
                     positive feedback.

                     Give a score between 0 and 1 (inclusive) to each of these five dimensions, and output your         <patch_to_review>
                     final evaluation in nested json format:                                                            {patch_to_review }
                     ```                                                                                                </patch_to_review>
                     {
                     "function": {"correctness": score, "relevance": score, "clarity": score, "consistency": score,
                     "language": score},                                                                                <code_review_to_evaluate>
        Scoring Rule "quality": {"correctness": score, "relevance": score, "clarity": score, "consistency": score,      {review_text }
                                                                                                                        </code_review_to_evaluate>
        Description "language":    score},
                     "style": {"correctness": score, "relevance": score, "clarity": score, "consistency": score,
                     "language": score},
                     "documentation": {"correctness": score, "relevance": score, "clarity": score, "consistency":
                     score, "language": score}
                     }
                     `
                     ```
                     If you cannot identify a certain field from the review, give a 0 score to all dimensions in this
                     field.




                                                                Figure 5: LLM-as-a-Judge Prompt


4.1.2      LLM-as-a-Judge

To evaluate the CR in a general perspective, we also adopt LLM-as-a-judge to evaluate the CR quality.
Specifically, we design a prompt that consists of CR information and evaluation criteria to request
an LLM to provide a score for the CR quality. Referring to some research about CR usefulness
investigation (Yang et al., 2023; Turzo & Bosu, 2024), we request LLM to provide a score of CR based
on four perspectives, that is, Functionality, Quality, Style, and Documentation. For each perspective,
we request LLM to analyze five dimensions of Correctness, Relevance, Clarity, Consistency and
Language. Each dimension will be provided a score by LLM and then an average overall score will
be calculated at last. The detail prompt is shown in Fig. 5. We use OpenAI o3-2025-04-16 (OpenAI,
2025b) model to achieve LLM-as-a-judge. Thereby, we can obtain a score provided by LLM.
By combining scores based on the reward model and LLM-as-a-judge, respectively, we get an
average score with model-based evaluation.

4.2     Rule-base Evaluation

To achieve a comprehensive evaluation metric, we also adopt a rule-based evaluation. Rule-based
evaluation is a white-box evaluation, which aims to determine the “formal correctness” and “super-
ficial similarity” of CR. We automatically extract structured defect information from the CR reports
generated by the LLMs, including file paths, line numbers, and review comments. Then we conduct
some heuristic rules which consists of location similarity, semantics similarity and defects match to
implement rule-based evaluation.

4.2.1      Location Similarity

Location similarity aims to evaluate the matching between the predicted CR location and the CR
ground truth. It includes file path matching, line number proximity, and diff hunk match level.
Specifically, if the file path where the predicted CR locates is exact match with the ground truth, we
give a score of 1. Otherwise, we give a score of 0. Regarding the line number accuracy, if it is an
exact match with the ground truth, we give a score of 1. If the line difference diffline is more than 5
lines, we give a score of 0.1. Otherwise, we conduct a decay function to calculate the line number


                                                                                                11
CodeFuse-CR-Bench



accuracy AccLN , which is shown as follows.
                                             1          , diffline = 0,
                                        
                                        
                                        
                                               diffline
                                        
                              AccLN = 1 −               , diffline ≤ 5,                              (4)
                                        
                                        
                                                10
                                           0.1          , diffline > 5.
In addition, to avoid unduly penalizing essentially correct predictions due to minor line number
offsets, we introduce a more robust metric: diff hunk similarity. This metric evaluates whether the
LLM’s predicted CR location and the ground truth location reside within the same code change
block. Specifically, We analyze whether the predicted CR’s line number resides within the same diff
hunk as the ground truth. If it does, we assign a score of 1. If the predicted CR is in a different diff
hunk, we assign a score of 0. If the predicted CR’s line number is not present in any diff hunk in the
patch to review, we collect the five lines above and below the CR line and calculate the overlap ratio
between this range and the ground truth diff hunk’s line number range as the diff hunk similarity
score. Thereby, combining with the file path matching and line number accuracy, diff hunk similarity
can contribute to a more comprehensive and fairer location evaluation. We assign weights of 70%,
15%, and 15% to file path matching, line number accuracy, and diff hunk similarity, respectively,
ultimately yielding a composite location similarity score.

4.2.2   Semantics Similarity
In order to evaluate the semantics performance of review comments, we use BLEU (Papineni
et al., 2002), a popular evaluation metric that is implemented in neural machine translation and
conversation systems. BLEU is now widely used in code-related tasks, such as code comment
generation (Guo et al., 2023), document generation (Hu et al., 2022b), review comment generation (Li
et al., 2022b) and so on. Its core idea is to compare the n-gram overlap between the text generated by
the model and the ground truth. The greater the overlap, the higher the BLEU score. The specific
calculation process of BLEU is given as follows:
                                                         m
                                  BLEU = BP · exp( ∑ ωn log pn ),                                    (5)
                                                        n =1

where ωn is the weight of n-gram and pn is the precision of n-gram. Usually, the maximum value
of n is 4, which is represented by BLEU-4. BP is the brevity penalty factor for generated review
comment length, which is shown as follows:
                                        
                                              1     , l c > lr ,
                                   BP =           l                                           (6)
                                        exp(1 − r ), lc ≤ lr .
                                                  lc
where lc is the length of generated review comment and lr represents the reference review comment.
In this paper, we employ BLEU-4 as the semantics similarity.

4.2.3   Defects Match
Since a CR task may involve reviewing multiple review comments and locations within a commit,
we design a defect match rule to evaluate performance under multi-location review scenarios.
Specifically, for each predicted review comment and location (i.e., predicted defect), we calculate the
average of the location similarity and semantics similarity scores between it and each ground-truth
review comment and location, namely sub-defect-match scores. We select the highest sub-defect-
match score among them. If this score exceeds the set threshold, we consider the predicted review
comment and location to be correctly matched to the defect information. Based on the number of
correctly matched defects, we can calculate precision, recall, and F1 scores.
                                               Ncorrectly_matched_defects
                                 Precision =                              ,                          (7)
                                                  Npredicted_defects

                                                   12
  CodeFuse-CR-Bench



             CLF 12
Problem Domain
              DE 12                                                                  5                      2 34               High




                                                                         Review Effort
              SV 7                                                                   4           172




                                                                                                                                       Difficulty
              PO 13
              TC   23                                                                3      314                            452 Medium
              DU   24
              CA   24                                                                2                80
             NFA                                 215                                 1                   33      115           Low
              BF                                             271
                 0    50    100    150     200         250         300               500 400 300 200 100 0 100 200 300 400 500
                              # of Instances                                                          # of Instances
                   (a) Problem Domain Distribution                                       (b) Review Effort & Difficulty Distribution

                                                 Figure 6: Benchmark Distribution


                                                                    Ncorrectly_matched_defects
                                                  Recall =                                     ,                                       (8)
                                                                     Nground_truth_defects

                                                                   2 ∗ Precision ∗ Recall
                                                       F1 =                               .                                            (9)
                                                                    Precision + Recall

  The total score of defect match is calculated by averaging the F1 score and the average of sub-defect-
  match scores. After getting the total defect score, we combine and average it with location similarity
  and semantics similarity score to get a rule-based score. At last we get an overall evaluation score
  based on the average of the model-based score and the rule-based score.


  5              Experiment Design

  In this section, we first provide the detailed distribution of the benchmark, introduce the models,
  context acquisition strategy, and the prompt used in the experiments, and provide a detailed
  description of the experimental setups. After that, we answer the following four research questions
  that the experiments aim to address:

  RQ1: What is the LLMs’ performance of comprehensive CR in CodeFuse-CR-Bench benchmark?
  RQ2: What is the LLM’s performance of comprehensive CR in different PR types?
  RQ3: How does different contextual information contribute to CR performance?
  RQ4: What is the performance of the reward model?


  5.1            Benchmark Distribution

 After implementing the pipeline in Section 3.2, we construct a benchmark with 601 Python CR task
 instances, which were created from 2016-11-06 to 2025-07-07. The problem domain distribution is
 shown in Fig. 6a. It can be found that bug fixes constitute the problem domain with the highest
 volume of high-quality CRs. This indicates robust software maintenance practices and a thriving
 CR ecosystem for this category of issues. The review effort and difficulty distribution are shown in
 Fig. 6b. Most instances are in a medium difficulty of PR task implementation. The most common
 review effort is 3, which also indicates that most CRs are assigned to tasks of moderate difficulty.
 The 601 instances involve 70 Python projects. Fig. 7 illustrates the project distribution of the
 benchmark. We present the top 17 projects containing the highest number of instances. These
 projects account for 55.41% of the total instances. Most of these projects are well-known within
 the Python community (e.g., pandas, scikit-learn et al.). This indicates that these projects are
 well-maintained with high-quality CRs.

  5.2            Studied LLMs


                                                                               13
CodeFuse-CR-Bench



We consider mainstream LLMs—encompassing both open-                  Others (298)                                pandas (60)
                                                                                                                 ansible (37)
source and proprietary models—that have been widely                                                                scikit-learn (32)

adopted in recent software-engineering-related studies (Fan                                                              scipy (26)

et al., 2025; Batole et al., 2025; Wang et al., 2024; Yin et al.,                                                          haystack (20)

2024). For open-source LLMs, we select DeepSeek-v3.1 (Guo                                                                        mypy (20)
et al., 2025), Kimi-K2-0905-preview (Team, 2025) Qwen3-235B-
                                                                                                                            skypilot (19)
A22B (Yang et al., 2025). For closed-source LLMs, we choose
the commonly used commercial models: Claude-Sonnet-4-                                                                           sympy (16)


20250514 (Anthropic, 2025), Gemini 2.5 Pro (Comanici et al.,                                                                    airflow (15)

                                                                                                                          matplotlib (12)
2025), GPT-4o (Hurst et al., 2024), GPT-5 (OpenAI, 2025a). They                                                            dbt-core (12)

have excellent performance in code-related tasks in previous           sqlfluff (10)                             pytorch-lightning (11)
                                                                       modin (10)      salt (11)   sentry (11)     netbox (11)
benchmarks.
                                                                      Figure 7: Project Distribution
5.3   Studied Context Acquisition Strategies

As a repository-level CR benchmark, CodeFuse-CR-Bench can
provide repository-level contextual information as part of the
LLM input to help the LLM achieve comprehensive CR. Due to the large size of modern software
repositories, it is not feasible to feed the entire repository to the model. It is necessary to retrieve
the most relevant information. Referring to SWE-Bench (Jimenez et al., 2024), we adopt two types
of context acquisition strategies that might be beneficial for comprehensive CR: Retrieval-based
Acquisition and Oracle-based context acquisition. In RQ3, we will validate the performance of these
two strategies.
Retrieval-based Context Acquisition. Since the problem description and the code implementing
the functionality may share overlapping vocabulary, we employ BM25 Stephen2004 to retrieve code
files similar to the problem statement within the project. BM25 is a ranking function commonly
used in information retrieval to measure the relevance between a document and a query. As a kind
of sparse retrieval method, BM25 offers fast computation speed and low resource consumption,
making it highly suitable for file retrieval scenarios in large-scale software projects. In RQ3, we will
separately analyze the impact of using the top-1, top-3 and top-5 relevant code files retrieved via
BM25 as context on the effectiveness of LLM-based CR.
Oracle-based Context Acquisition. As a baseline, we also consider the oracle-based retrieval.
Specifically, we retrieve the combination of changed files in diff(base commit, commit to review) ∪
diff(base commit, merged commit). The reason lies in the fact that there are some other commits
related to the target commit in the PR when extracting the target commit in PR as the CR target.
These related commits may serve as supplementary modifications to the target commit. Therefore,
we choose the change files from commits in the same PR as the largest context space.

5.4   Experimental Setting

We use the evaluation framework proposed in Section 4 to assess the CR generated by LLMs. We set
the generation temperature of LLMs to 0.6 (except GPT-5 for 1), top-p to 0.95. The context window is
set based on the maximum context window length specified in each LLM’s system card. Note that,
when employing different context retrieval strategies, once the token length exceeds the context
window, we remove the retrieved files outside the context window. When the input remains longer
than the context window length after removing all retrieved files, we consider the LLM unable
to provide a correct CR for that instance and assign an evaluation score of 0. To mitigate issues
stemming from the randomness of model generation, the experimental results presented in this
paper are obtained by conducting three repeated experiments and averaging the results. The prompt
template is shown in Fig. 8, which consists of the issue tag including the problem statement, the code
tag including the context, and the patch tag including the patch to review. The generated CR format
is also described in the review tag, which involves the functional implementation, code quality, and
defect information.


                                                  14
CodeFuse-CR-Bench



            Table 5: LLM Performance Score (%) under CodeFuse-CR-Bench Banchmark

 LLM                         Model-based Score    Rule-based Score                   Comprehensive Score
 DeepSeek-v3.1                     58.69                     28.34                                  42.51
 Kimi-K2-0905-preview              62.11                     20.81                                  46.77
 Qwen3-235B-A22B                   58.10                     24.30                                  40.45
 Claude-Sonnet-4-20250514          60.67                     33.31                                  47.46
 Gemini 2.5 Pro                    63.65                     29.47                                  52.37
 GPT-4o                            54.57                      8.10                                  35.47
 GPT-5                             64.80                     18.30                                  41.96




5.5   RQ1: What is the LLMs’ performance of comprehensive CR in CodeFuse-CR-Bench
      benchmark?


We conduct experiments under the oracle-
based context as the baseline setting to ex-      You will be provided with 1) a partial code base, 2) an issue statement explaining a
plore the performance of mainstream LLMs in       problem to resolve, and 3) a patch addressing the issue.
                                                  <issue>
comprehensive CR. Table 5 shows the results,      {problem statement}
                                                  </issue>
which reveal distinct strengths and weak-         <code>
nesses across models. This suggests that Gem-     {context}
                                                  </code>
ini is currently the most well-rounded per-       <patch>
                                                  {patch to review}
former in generating contextually grounded        </patch>
and technically sound CR feedback.                I need you to comprehensively review the above patch with respect to the given issue from
                                                  multiple dimensions such as functional implementation, code quality, and defects.
                                                  Generate a report in the following format.
On the model-based evaluation dimension,          <review>
GPT-5 attains the best score (64.80), followed    ## Function
                                                  Briefly describe the main purpose and implemented functionality of this patch. Specifically,
closely by Gemini 2.5 Pro (63.65). This demon-    does this patch address the issue?
                                                  ## Complexity
strates that GPT-5 generates review comments      Is the patch more complex than it should be? Check it at every level - lines, functions,
with the highest perceived quality in terms of    classes.
                                                  ## Style
semantic quality and usefulness, even if its      Does the patch follow the programming conventions of the original code? Does it pick
                                                  good names for newly introduced variables, functions, classes, and files?
overall integration across dimensions is not      ## Documentation
optimal.                                          Does the patch provide clear and necessary comments? If the patch changes how users
                                                  build, test, interact with, or release code, does it also update associated documentation?
                                                  ## Defects
In contrast, Claude-Sonnet-4-20250514 excels      If there are any defects in the patch, point out their locations (file path and line number)
in the rule-based evaluation (33.31) and sig-     and provide improvement suggestions in the following format:
                                                  <defect>
nificantly outperforms models like GPT-4o         file_path: file path of defect 1 in the patch
                                                  line: line number of defect 1 in the patch
(8.10) and GPT-5 (18.30), indicating its strong   suggestion: suggestion for defect 1
adherence to location similarity, semantics       </defect>
                                                  <defect>
similarity, and defect match. This highlights     ...
                                                  Note:
Claude’s strength in producing formally cor-      - If there is no defect, output "None" in this section.                      Output Format
rect and precise feedback, albeit sometimes at    </review>                                                                    Description
the cost of broader contextual integration.
                                                            Figure 8: Prompt Template
Notably, several models exhibit significant im-
balances. For instance, while GPT-5 performs
best in model-based scoring, its rule-based
performance lags, resulting in a lower comprehensive score (41.96) than Gemini. Similarly, GPT-
4o shows moderate model-based performance but severely underperforms in rule-based checks,
suggesting potential issues with factual grounding or hallucination in CR scenarios. These findings
underscore that no single LLM dominates across all dimensions of comprehensive code review. In-
stead, performance varies significantly depending on the evaluation axis, emphasizing the necessity
of our multi-faceted assessment framework. The results also highlight the importance of integrating
both model-based and rule-based metrics to avoid overestimating the practical utility of generated
CRs.


                                                  15
CodeFuse-CR-Bench



             Table 6: LLM’s Comprehensive Score (%) in Different Problem Domains

 LLM                          BF     NFA     CA           DU   TC      PO      SV      DE      CLF
 DeepSeek-v3.1               43.24   41.75   38.73    47.20    47.98   42.62   38.45   47.44   24.54
 Kimi-K2-0905-preview        46.34   47.09   46.68    47.43    51.20   49.24   43.36   47.19   39.97
 Qwen3-235B-A22B             41.39   40.14   30.47    45.31    46.91   37.11   35.23   46.91   22.92
 Claude-Sonnet-4-20250514    49.26   46.42   47.04    47.27    46.66   44.48   39.21   49.44   33.94
 Gemini 2.5 Pro              52.14   51.93   49.83    58.86    55.83   51.62   52.11   53.35   51.23
 GPT-4o                      36.44   35.23   32.09    37.66    36.00   37.94   31.93   35.33   18.49
 GPT-5                       43.67   40.68   36.73    44.88    44.25   43.04   36.43   44.16   26.17




Answer to RQ1: Gemini 2.5 Pro achieves the highest comprehensive CR performance on CodeFuse-
CR-Bench, outperforming other LLMs by balancing strong model-based and rule-based scores, while
GPT-5 and Claude-Sonnet excel in semantic quality and formal correctness, respectively, highlighting
the necessity of multi-dimensional evaluation for realistic CR assessment.


5.6   RQ2: What is the LLM’s performance of comprehensive CR in different PR types?

In Section 3.2.4, we label the CR task instances into nine problem domains based on the PR types.
In this RQ, we conduct a fine-grained analysis of their comprehensive CR capabilities within each
domain, with results presented in Table 6. It can be found that Gemini 2.5 Pro achieves the highest
comprehensive score in all nine problem domains. It outperforms the second-best model in each
domain by margins ranging from 5.93% to 28.17%, with particularly strong performance in DU
(58.86), TC (55.83), and DE (53.35).
This uniform dominance suggests that Gemini 2.5 Pro not only generalizes well across different types
of code changes but also effectively leverages domain-specific context—such as test requirements,
security constraints, or formatting rules—to generate more accurate and actionable CR feedback.
The results highlight its robustness and adaptability in handling the heterogeneous nature of modern
CR practices.


Answer to RQ2: Gemini 2.5 Pro consistently outperforms all other LLMs in comprehensive CR
across all nine problem domains, demonstrating its superior generalization and context utilization
in diverse CR tasks.


5.7   RQ3: How does different contextual information contribute to CR performance?

In Section 5.3, we propose two types of context acquisition strategies that may be helpful for LLMs
to achieve comprehensive CR. In this RQ, we evaluate the effectiveness of these strategies under
varying context availability. Particularly, regarding retrieval-based context acquisition, we adopt
BM25 to retrieve top-1, top-3 and top-5 relevant files as the context, respectively.
Results, as shown in Table 7, demonstrate that Gemini 2.5 Pro achieves the highest comprehensive
score across all context configurations, including both oracle-based and BM25-based settings. No-
tably, its performance under the BM25 top-1 context (52.24) is nearly on par with that under the
oracle-based setting (52.37), with only a marginal gap of 0.13. This indicates that Gemini can achieve
near-optimal review quality by leveraging just the single most relevant retrieved file, highlighting
its strong capability in contextual relevance filtering and efficient information utilization.
Furthermore, Gemini maintains stable performance across different retrieval depths (top-1: 52.24,
top-3: 51.45, top-5: 51.63), suggesting robustness to context size and resilience to potential noise in
larger retrieval sets. This stability contrasts with other models—such as GPT-5 and GPT-4o—whose
scores fluctuate more significantly with context size, indicating higher sensitivity to irrelevant or


                                                     16
CodeFuse-CR-Bench



                   Table 7: LLM’s Comprehensive Score (%) in Different Context

                             Oracle-based     BM25-based       BM25-based           BM25-based
 LLM                           Context        Context Top-1    Context Top-3        Context Top-5
 DeepSeek-v3.1                   42.51            48.13               43.07                36.42
 Kimi-K2-0905-preview            46.77            48.15               47.78                45.43
 Qwen3-235B-A22B                 40.45            47.29               40.71                33.55
 Claude-Sonnet-4-20250514        47.46            51.02               48.43                41.91
 Gemini 2.5 Pro                  52.37            52.24               51.45                51.63
 GPT-4o                          35.47            39.34               36.03                31.13
 GPT-5                           41.96            44.75               49.87                40.17


                                Table 8: Reward Model Performance

 Model Type                               Accuracy (%)    Precision (%)       Recall (%)     F1 (%)
 Reward Model w Reviewed File                 75.03           79.40             81.92         80.64
 Reward Model w/o Context                     74.30           80.02             79.30         79.57
 Kimi-K2-0711-preview w Reviewed File         43.68           59.13             42.69         49.58
 Gemini 2.5 Pro w Reviewed File               51.30           63.22             59.60         61.36



redundant information. These findings also Gemini 2.5 Pro is the most context-efficient and robust
model for practical, scalable CR systems where oracle-level context is unavailable.



Answer to RQ3: Gemini 2.5 Pro achieves near-oracle performance in comprehensive code review
using only the top-1 retrieved context, demonstrating superior context efficiency and robustness
across retrieval-based and oracle-based acquisition strategies.


5.8   RQ4: What is the performance of the reward model?

In Section 4.1.1, we incorporate a reward model as a key component of our model-based evaluation
framework. To assess its reliability and validity in distinguishing high-quality from low-quality
code reviews, we conduct a comparison study to evaluate the classification performance of the
reward model. The input to the reward model consists of two elements: the query and the patch to
review. The query itself is composed of the context (i.e., the full content of the reviewed file, used as
default context), review context, and the review location information. We split the dataset described
in Section 4.1.1 into a 90% training set and a 10% test set to evaluate the model’s classification
effectiveness. A CR is classified as positive if the reward model outputs a score greater than 0.5;
otherwise, it is classified as negative. As shown in Table 8. the reward model achieves an accuracy
of 75.03% and an F1 score of 80.64%, demonstrating its strong discriminative capability. Notably,
even when the context information is removed, the model maintains competitive performance, with
accuracy and F1 scores of 74.30% and 79.57%, respectively—suggesting that the review context,
location and patch already provide substantial signal for review quality assessment. For comparison,
we evaluate two SOTA LLMs—Kimi-K2-0711-preview and Gemini 2.5 Pro—on the same binary
classification task. The prompt provided to each LLM mirrors the input format used by the reward
model, and the LLM’s output is directly mapped to a binary label based on whether it expresses
approval or disapproval of the review. The results show significantly lower performance: Kimi
achieves 43.68% accuracy and 49.58% F1, while Gemini reaches 51.30% accuracy and 61.36% F1.
These findings indicate that the fine-tuned reward model substantially outperforms general-purpose
LLMs in this specialized classification task, validating its suitability as a reliable evaluator within
our comprehensive CR assessment framework. In our final evaluation pipeline, the reward model is
applied with the reviewed file context to ensure maximal fidelity to real review scenarios.


                                                   17
CodeFuse-CR-Bench




Answer to RQ4: The reward model we construct demonstrates objective performance in evaluating
the quality of CRs, achieving an F1 score exceeding 80% and an accuracy exceeding 75%.


6   Threats to Validity

Threats to Internal Validity. For threats to internal validity, the first concern is the selection
of prompts. The performance of LLMs is sensitive to prompt design. Using an equivalent but
differently phrased prompt may result in significant performance differences. To mitigate this threat,
we ultimately chose the one that yielded the best results after trying several formats. However, since
we did not cover all available prompt formats, the one we selected may not be the optimal one.
Secondly, since the setting of LLM hyperparameters (e.g., temperature), the outputs of LLM may
exhibit randomness. To mitigate this issue, we conduct three repeated experiments and average the
results.
Threats to External Validity. The first threat to external validity is the programming language
generalization. CodeFuse-CR-Bench is a benchmark based on Python. So it can not be used to
evaluate comprehensive CR on other programming languages such as Java or C++. In the future,
we plan to address this limitation by continuously expanding CodeFuse-CR-Bench to cover as many
programming languages as possible. The second external validity is the type of generalization.
CodeFuse-CR-Bench consists of instances including nine types of problem domains. However, there
may exist some CRs involving some other types. We will try to expand the number of types in the
future. Another threat is the model generalization. Due to limited resources, our experiments are
not able to cover all the available LLMs, thus not fully reflecting the performance of all LLMs in
actual development scenarios, which may slightly affect the representativeness of our experiments.

7   Conclusion

CR is an important component for building stable, maintainable, and high-quality software products.
Many CR benchmarks have been proposed to evaluate different kinds of automatic CR approaches.
But there is a lack of comprehensiveness in existing benchmarks and approaches, which are detached
from real CR scenarios. In this paper, we introduce CodeFuse-CR-Bench, a comprehensiveness-aware
CR benchmark to fill this gap. The design of the benchmark can address the limitations of real-world
CR. Correspondingly, we design an evaluation metric to achieve comprehensive CR evaluation. We
conduct an empirical study to explore SOTA LLMs’ performance in the real-world CR scenario. This
more realistic CR benchmark encourages creative automatic CR solutions that can have immediate
applicability in open-source software development. We believe that CodeFuse-CR-Bench will offer
valuable evaluation for the future development of LLM-based automatic CR approaches.

References
Anthropic. System card: Claude opus 4 & claude sonnet 4. https://www-cdn.anthropic.com/426
 3b940cabb546aa0e3283f35b686f4f3b2ff47.pdf, 2025. Accessed: 2025-05-24.
Alberto Bacchelli and Christian Bird. Expectations, outcomes, and challenges of modern code
  review. In 2013 35th International Conference on Software Engineering (ICSE), pp. 712–721, 2013. doi:
  10.1109/ICSE.2013.6606617.
Fraol Batole, David OBrien, Tien N. Nguyen, Robert Dyer, and Hridesh Rajan. An llm-based
  agent-oriented approach for automated code design issue localization. In 2025 IEEE/ACM 47th
  International Conference on Software Engineering (ICSE), pp. 1320–1332, 2025. doi: 10.1109/ICSE5534
  7.2025.00100.
Jialun Cao, Zhiyong Chen, Jiarong Wu, Shing-Chi Cheung, and Chang Xu. Javabench: A benchmark
   of object-oriented code generation for evaluating large language models. In Proceedings of the


                                                  18
CodeFuse-CR-Bench



  39th IEEE/ACM International Conference on Automated Software Engineering, ASE ’24, pp. 870–882,
  New York, NY, USA, 2024. Association for Computing Machinery. ISBN 9798400712487. doi:
  10.1145/3691620.3695470. URL https://doi.org/10.1145/3691620.3695470.

Gheorghe Comanici, Eric Bieber, Mike Schaekermann, Ice Pasupat, Noveen Sachdeva, Inderjit
 Dhillon, Marcel Blistein, Ori Ram, Dan Zhang, Evan Rosen, et al. Gemini 2.5: Pushing the frontier
 with advanced reasoning, multimodality, long context, and next generation agentic capabilities.
 arXiv preprint arXiv:2507.06261, 2025.

Tri Dao. FlashAttention-2: Faster attention with better parallelism and work partitioning. In
  International Conference on Learning Representations (ICLR), 2024.

Gang Fan, Xiaoheng Xie, Xunjin Zheng, Yinan Liang, and Peng Di. Static code analysis in the ai era:
 An in-depth exploration of the concept, function, and potential of intelligent code analysis agents,
 2023. URL https://arxiv.org/abs/2310.08837.

Lishui Fan, Jiakun Liu, Zhongxin Liu, David Lo, Xin Xia, and Shanping Li. Exploring the capabilities
  of llms for code-change-related tasks. ACM Trans. Softw. Eng. Methodol., 34(6), July 2025. ISSN
  1049-331X. doi: 10.1145/3709358. URL https://doi.org/10.1145/3709358.

Jia Feng, Jiachen Liu, Cuiyun Gao, Chun Yong Chong, Chaozheng Wang, Shan Gao, and Xin Xia.
   Complexcodeeval: A benchmark for evaluating large code models on more complex code. In
   Proceedings of the 39th IEEE/ACM International Conference on Automated Software Engineering, ASE
  ’24, pp. 1895–1906, New York, NY, USA, 2024. Association for Computing Machinery. ISBN
   9798400712487. doi: 10.1145/3691620.3695552. URL https://doi.org/10.1145/3691620.3695
   552.

Jiawei Gu, Xuhui Jiang, Zhichao Shi, Hexiang Tan, Xuehao Zhai, Chengjin Xu, Wei Li, Yinghan Shen,
   Shengjie Ma, Honghao Liu, Saizhuo Wang, Kun Zhang, Yuanzhuo Wang, Wen Gao, Lionel Ni,
   and Jian Guo. A survey on llm-as-a-judge, 2025. URL https://arxiv.org/abs/2411.15594.

Daya Guo, Dejian Yang, Haowei Zhang, Junxiao Song, Ruoyu Zhang, Runxin Xu, Qihao Zhu,
 Shirong Ma, Peiyi Wang, Xiao Bi, et al. Deepseek-r1: Incentivizing reasoning capability in llms via
 reinforcement learning. arXiv preprint arXiv:2501.12948, 2025.

Hanyang Guo, Xiangping Chen, Yuan Huang, Yanlin Wang, Xi Ding, Zibin Zheng, Xiaocong Zhou,
 and Hong-Ning Dai. Snippet comment generation based on code context expansion. ACM Trans.
 Softw. Eng. Methodol., 33(1), November 2023. ISSN 1049-331X. doi: 10.1145/3611664. URL
 https://doi.org/10.1145/3611664.

Qi Guo, Junming Cao, Xiaofei Xie, Shangqing Liu, Xiaohong Li, Bihuan Chen, and Xin Peng. Explor-
  ing the potential of chatgpt in automated code refinement: An empirical study. In Proceedings of
  the IEEE/ACM 46th International Conference on Software Engineering, ICSE ’24, New York, NY, USA,
  2024. Association for Computing Machinery. ISBN 9798400702174. doi: 10.1145/3597503.3623306.
  URL https://doi.org/10.1145/3597503.3623306.

Edward J Hu, Yelong Shen, Phillip Wallis, Zeyuan Allen-Zhu, Yuanzhi Li, Shean Wang, Lu Wang, and
  Weizhu Chen. LoRA: Low-rank adaptation of large language models. In International Conference
  on Learning Representations, 2022a. URL https://openreview.net/forum?id=nZeVKeeFYf9.

Ruida Hu, Chao Peng, Jingyi Ren, Bo Jiang, Xiangxin Meng, Qinyun Wu, Pengfei Gao, Xinchen Wang,
  and Cuiyun Gao. A real-world benchmark for evaluating fine-grained issue solving capabilities
  of large language models, 2024. URL https://arxiv.org/abs/2411.18019.

Xing Hu, Qiuyuan Chen, Haoye Wang, Xin Xia, David Lo, and Thomas Zimmermann. Correlating
  automated and human evaluation of code documentation generation quality. ACM Trans. Softw.
  Eng. Methodol., 31(4), July 2022b. ISSN 1049-331X. doi: 10.1145/3502853. URL https://doi.org/
  10.1145/3502853.


                                                 19
CodeFuse-CR-Bench



Aaron Hurst, Adam Lerer, Adam P Goucher, Adam Perelman, Aditya Ramesh, Aidan Clark,
 AJ Ostrow, Akila Welihinda, Alan Hayes, Alec Radford, et al. Gpt-4o system card. arXiv preprint
 arXiv:2410.21276, 2024.

Yanjie Jiang, Hui Liu, Tianyi Chen, Fu Fan, Chunhao Dong, Kui Liu, and Lu Zhang. Deep assessment
  of code review generation approaches: Beyond lexical similarity, 2025. URL https://arxiv.org/
  abs/2501.05176.

Carlos E Jimenez, John Yang, Alexander Wettig, Shunyu Yao, Kexin Pei, Ofir Press, and Karthik R
  Narasimhan. SWE-bench: Can language models resolve real-world github issues? In The Twelfth
  International Conference on Learning Representations, 2024. URL https://openreview.net/forum
  ?id=VTF8yNQM66.

Lingwei Li, Li Yang, Huaxi Jiang, Jun Yan, Tiejian Luo, Zihan Hua, Geng Liang, and Chun Zuo.
  Auger: automatically generating review comments with pre-training models. In Proceedings of
  the 30th ACM Joint European Software Engineering Conference and Symposium on the Foundations of
  Software Engineering, ESEC/FSE 2022, pp. 1009–1021, New York, NY, USA, 2022a. Association
  for Computing Machinery. ISBN 9781450394130. doi: 10.1145/3540250.3549099. URL https:
  //doi.org/10.1145/3540250.3549099.

Zhiyu Li, Shuai Lu, Daya Guo, Nan Duan, Shailesh Jannu, Grant Jenks, Deep Majumder, Jared Green,
  Alexey Svyatkovskiy, Shengyu Fu, and Neel Sundaresan. Automating code review activities
  by large-scale pre-training. In Proceedings of the 30th ACM Joint European Software Engineering
  Conference and Symposium on the Foundations of Software Engineering, ESEC/FSE 2022, pp. 1035–1047,
  New York, NY, USA, 2022b. Association for Computing Machinery. ISBN 9781450394130. doi:
  10.1145/3540250.3549081. URL https://doi.org/10.1145/3540250.3549081.

Jenny T. Liang, Carmen Badea, Christian Bird, Robert DeLine, Denae Ford, Nicole Forsgren, and
  Thomas Zimmermann. Can gpt-4 replicate empirical software engineering research? Proc. ACM
  Softw. Eng., 1(FSE), July 2024. doi: 10.1145/3660767. URL https://doi.org/10.1145/3660767.

OpenAI. Gpt-5 system card. https://cdn.openai.com/gpt-5-system-card.pdf, 2025a. Accessed:
 2025-08-13.

OpenAI. Openai o3 and o4-mini system card. https://cdn.openai.com/pdf/2221c875-02dc-478
 9-800b-e7758f3722c1/o3-and-o4-mini-system-card.pdf, 2025b. Accessed: 2025-04-16.

Long Ouyang, Jeffrey Wu, Xu Jiang, Diogo Almeida, Carroll Wainwright, Pamela Mishkin, Chong
  Zhang, Sandhini Agarwal, Katarina Slama, Alex Ray, et al. Training language models to follow
  instructions with human feedback. Advances in neural information processing systems, 35:27730–
  27744, 2022.

Kishore Papineni, Salim Roukos, Todd Ward, and Wei-Jing Zhu. Bleu: a method for automatic
  evaluation of machine translation. In Proceedings of the 40th annual meeting of the Association for
  Computational Linguistics (ACL), pp. 311–318. ACL, 2002. URL http://www.aclweb.org/antholo
  gy/P02-1040.pdf.

Samyam Rajbhandari, Jeff Rasley, Olatunji Ruwase, and Yuxiong He. Zero: Memory optimizations
  toward training trillion parameter models. In SC20: International Conference for High Performance
  Computing, Networking, Storage and Analysis, pp. 1–16. IEEE, 2020.

Steffen Rendle, Christoph Freudenthaler, Zeno Gantner, and Lars Schmidt-Thieme. Bpr: Bayesian
  personalized ranking from implicit feedback. arXiv preprint arXiv:1205.2618, 2012.

Andrei Sobo, Awes Mubarak, Almas Baimagambetov, and Nikolaos Polatidis. Evaluating llms for
 code generation in hri: A comparative study of chatgpt, gemini, and claude. Applied Artificial
 Intelligence, 39(1):2439610, 2025. doi: 10.1080/08839514.2024.2439610. URL https://doi.org/10
 .1080/08839514.2024.2439610.


                                                 20
CodeFuse-CR-Bench



Guijin Son, Hyunwoo Ko, Hoyoung Lee, Yewon Kim, and Seunghyeok Hong. Llm-as-a-judge &
 reward model: What they can and cannot do, 2024. URL https://arxiv.org/abs/2409.11239.
Weisong Sun, Yun Miao, Yuekang Li, Hongyu Zhang, Chunrong Fang, Yi Liu, Gelei Deng, Yang
 Liu, and Zhenyu Chen. Source code summarization in the era of large language models. In 2025
 IEEE/ACM 47th International Conference on Software Engineering (ICSE), pp. 1882–1894, 2025. doi:
 10.1109/ICSE55347.2025.00034.
Kimi Team. Kimi k2: Open agentic intelligence, 2025. URL https://arxiv.org/abs/2501.12948.
Patanamon Thongtanunam, Chanathip Pornprasit, and Chakkrit Tantithamthavorn. Autotransform:
  automated code transformation to support modern code review process. In Proceedings of the 44th
  International Conference on Software Engineering, ICSE ’22, pp. 237–248, New York, NY, USA, 2022.
  Association for Computing Machinery. ISBN 9781450392211. doi: 10.1145/3510003.3510067. URL
  https://doi.org/10.1145/3510003.3510067.
Rosalia Tufano, Luca Pascarella, Michele Tufano, Denys Poshyvanyk, and Gabriele Bavota. Towards
  automating code review activities. In Proceedings of the 43rd International Conference on Software
  Engineering, ICSE ’21, pp. 163–174. IEEE Press, 2021. ISBN 9781450390859. doi: 10.1109/ICSE4390
  2.2021.00027. URL https://doi.org/10.1109/ICSE43902.2021.00027.
Rosalia Tufano, Simone Masiero, Antonio Mastropaolo, Luca Pascarella, Denys Poshyvanyk, and
  Gabriele Bavota. Using pre-trained models to boost code review automation. In Proceedings of the
  44th International Conference on Software Engineering, ICSE ’22, pp. 2291–2302, New York, NY, USA,
  2022. Association for Computing Machinery. ISBN 9781450392211. doi: 10.1145/3510003.3510621.
  URL https://doi.org/10.1145/3510003.3510621.
Asif Kamal Turzo and Amiangshu Bosu. What makes a code review useful to opendev developers?
  an empirical investigation. Empirical Software Engineering, 29(1):6, 2024.
Wei Wang, Huilong Ning, Gaowei Zhang, Libo Liu, and Yi Wang. Rocks coding, not development:
 A human-centric, experimental evaluation of llm-supported se tasks. Proc. ACM Softw. Eng., 1
 (FSE), July 2024. doi: 10.1145/3643758. URL https://doi.org/10.1145/3643758.
Yibin Wang, Yuhang Zang, Hao Li, Cheng Jin, and Jiaqi Wang. Unified reward model for multimodal
  understanding and generation, 2025a. URL https://arxiv.org/abs/2503.05236.
You Wang, Michael Pradel, and Zhongxin Liu. Are "solved issues" in swe-bench really solved
  correctly? an empirical study. ArXiv, abs/2503.15223, 2025b. URL https://api.semanticschola
  r.org/CorpusID:277113006.
Adam X. Yang, Maxime Robeyns, Thomas Coste, Zhengyan Shi, Jun Wang, Haitham Bou Ammar,
 and Laurence Aitchison. Bayesian reward models for LLM alignment. In ICML 2024 Workshop on
 Structured Probabilistic Inference & Generative Modeling, 2024. URL https://openreview.net/for
 um?id=30jztCg6Yc.
An Yang, Anfeng Li, Baosong Yang, Beichen Zhang, Binyuan Hui, Bo Zheng, Bowen Yu, Chang
 Gao, Chengen Huang, Chenxu Lv, Chujie Zheng, Dayiheng Liu, Fan Zhou, Fei Huang, Feng Hu,
 Hao Ge, Haoran Wei, Huan Lin, Jialong Tang, Jian Yang, Jianhong Tu, Jianwei Zhang, Jianxin
 Yang, Jiaxi Yang, Jing Zhou, Jingren Zhou, Junyang Lin, Kai Dang, Keqin Bao, Kexin Yang, Le Yu,
 Lianghao Deng, Mei Li, Mingfeng Xue, Mingze Li, Pei Zhang, Peng Wang, Qin Zhu, Rui Men,
 Ruize Gao, Shixuan Liu, Shuang Luo, Tianhao Li, Tianyi Tang, Wenbiao Yin, Xingzhang Ren,
 Xinyu Wang, Xinyu Zhang, Xuancheng Ren, Yang Fan, Yang Su, Yichang Zhang, Yinger Zhang,
 Yu Wan, Yuqiong Liu, Zekun Wang, Zeyu Cui, Zhenru Zhang, Zhipeng Zhou, and Zihan Qiu.
 Qwen3 technical report, 2025. URL https://arxiv.org/abs/2505.09388.
Lanxin Yang, Jinwei Xu, Yifan Zhang, He Zhang, and Alberto Bacchelli. Evacrc: Evaluating code
  review comments. In Proceedings of the 31st ACM Joint European Software Engineering Conference and
  Symposium on the Foundations of Software Engineering, ESEC/FSE 2023, pp. 275–287, New York, NY,


                                                21
CodeFuse-CR-Bench



  USA, 2023. Association for Computing Machinery. ISBN 9798400703270. doi: 10.1145/3611643.36
  16245. URL https://doi.org/10.1145/3611643.3616245.
Xin Yin, Chao Ni, and Shaohua Wang. Multitask-based evaluation of open-source llm on software
  vulnerability. IEEE Transactions on Software Engineering, 50(11):3071–3087, 2024. doi: 10.1109/TSE.
  2024.3470333.
Daoguang Zan, Zhirong Huang, Wei Liu, Hanwu Chen, Linhao Zhang, Shulin Xin, Lu Chen, Qi Liu,
 Xiaojian Zhong, Aoyan Li, Siyao Liu, Yongsheng Xiao, Liangqiang Chen, Yuyu Zhang, Jing Su,
 Tianyu Liu, Rui Long, Kai Shen, and Liang Xiang. Multi-swe-bench: A multilingual benchmark
 for issue resolving, 2025. URL https://arxiv.org/abs/2504.02605.
Lan Zhang, Qingtian Zou, Anoop Singhal, Xiaoyan Sun, and Peng Liu. Evaluating large language
  models for real-world vulnerability repair in c/c++ code. In Proceedings of the 10th ACM Interna-
  tional Workshop on Security and Privacy Analytics, IWSPA ’24, pp. 49–58, New York, NY, USA, 2024.
  Association for Computing Machinery. ISBN 9798400705564. doi: 10.1145/3643651.3659892. URL
  https://doi.org/10.1145/3643651.3659892.
Zelin Zhao, Zhaogui Xu, Jialong Zhu, Peng Di, Yuan Yao, and Xiaoxing Ma. The right prompts for
  the job: Repair code-review defects with large language model, 2023. URL https://arxiv.org/
  abs/2312.17485.
Dewu Zheng, Yanlin Wang, Ensheng Shi, Ruikai Zhang, Yuchi Ma, Hongyu Zhang, and Zibin Zheng.
  Humanevo: An evolution-aware benchmark for more realistic evaluation of repository-level code
  generation. In 2025 IEEE/ACM 47th International Conference on Software Engineering (ICSE), pp.
 1372–1384, 2025. doi: 10.1109/ICSE55347.2025.00228.
Xin Zhou, Kisub Kim, Bowen Xu, DongGyun Han, Junda He, and David Lo. Generation-based code
  review automation: How far are we? In 2023 IEEE/ACM 31st International Conference on Program
  Comprehension (ICPC), pp. 215–226, 2023. doi: 10.1109/ICPC58990.2023.00036.




                                                 22
